   [1]Linnstrument
   Where to buy
   [2]ONLINE SHOP[3]DEALERS[4]REGISTRATION[5]DISCOUNTS [6]Buying USED
   Support
   [7]LINNSTRUMENT[8]TEMPEST[9]ADRENALINN[10]MPC60
   V3.10[11]LEGACY PRODUCTS
   OTHER
   [12]ABOUT RLD[13]Museum[14]Roger FAQs[15]Press[16]Grammy
   Award[17]Stanford Workshop[18]Contact

LinnStrument Artist Interviews

   Here's a new page containing interviews with some of the talented
   artists who play LinnStrument. Please scroll down to see one of the
   interviews below:
   ‍
   April 1, 2024: Max Bajzek
   September 1, 2023: Fontaine Burnett
   August 1, 2023: Jesse Washmon
   July 1, 2023: Jeremy Cubert
   June 1, 2023: Jordan Rudess
   ‍

Max Bajzek

   April 1, 2024
   Max Bajzek (aka “thoughtForm”) is my favorite expressive soloist on
   LinnStrument, using LinnStrument’s three dimensions of continuous touch
   expression with high skill, sensitivity and subtlety.
   Here's his segment in “The LinnStrumentalists Volume 2”:
   ‍[19]https://youtu.be/7TTp7GKltHQ?t=86
   ‍
   And here’s his segment is “The LinnStrumentalists Volume 3”:
   [20]https://youtu.be/MDTikW1BFt8?t=162
   ‍
   Max is also tech-savvy, having created the sounds in both of the above
   videos, as well as many of the best sounds in the “LinnStrument MPE”
   library in LinnStrument’s official synth, Surge XT.
   He's also created some very good tutorials about making MPE sounds on
   Surge XT. You can find some of them on my "LinnStrument Tech Tutorials"
   YouTube playlist. Here’s his YouTube channel, containing video of both
   his performances and tutorials:
   [21]https://www.youtube.com/@thoughtFormMax
   ‍
   And here’s Max’s website:
   [22]https://www.thoughtformmusic.com/
   ‍
   I’m honored that Max has chosen LinnStrument as his instrument.
   ‍

   ‍Q: I’ve mentioned above your skill at solo performance expression.
   What do you think led you to this focus?
   ‍
   A: After my last band ended, it was clear I would be going solo for a
   while at least, and I needed something visually interesting I could be
   doing on stage while my computer spat out prerecorded electronic stuff.
   My keyboard is very heavy and I was pretty sure I never wanted to take
   it anywhere again, and I’m not really good enough at guitar to be
   interesting for a full set. The LinnStrument looked to me, from the
   beginning, like a lead instrument. All that expression is sort of, not
   really but sort of, wasted in the accompaniment. So I decided from the
   start that I was going to wear the instrument like a guitar so I could
   move around and the audience could see what I was doing. And I was
   going to shred.
   Lately more and more I’ve found the prerecorded electronic stuff to be
   unnecessary, and my sets have gotten progressively more
   LinnStrument-heavy to LinnStrument-only. I do think I’ll bring back the
   pre-recorded stuff at some point, though, because it’s really fun to
   create. I enjoyed doing sets with LinnStrument, laptop, and eurorack,
   though In the future I hope to use a more lightweight eurorack
   alternative.

   ‍Q: What are some examples of music or musicians that you value, and
   have influenced you?
   ‍
   A: For my LinnStrument work, any instrumental soloist working in a
   non-western style is going to have a huge impact on me. There are many,
   many of these people, and I often don’t even know their names because
   they show up as nameless samples in chill beats, but some of them are
   Claude Chalhoub, Gevorg Dabagian, Ram Narayan, Ustad Asif Ali Khan.
   I also have a new favorite youtuber, Farya Faraji , who seems to have
   made it his mission to teach me everything I don’t know about all this
   music that I love. I appreciate that.
   But my biggest single influence there is probably Steve Tibbetts. He’s
   a Minnesota guitarist who creates the most incredible soundscapes with
   his percussionist, Marc Anderson. Their work is both profoundly calm
   and shockingly intense, sometimes simultaneously.
   More generally, some of my favorites are Trent Reznor, Stravinsky,
   Fates Warning, John Barry, Ennio Morricone, Tangerine Dream, Tool,
   Hildegard von Bingen, and Slash.
   Most recently I’m starting to be a big fan of Joe Hisaishi as I work on
   a LinnStrument arrangement of one of his Studio Ghibli pieces.
   ‍

   ‍Q: Your video above, “Hovern Enkan” is beautiful, and I believe is a
   traditional Armenian song. What drew you to the music of this part of
   the world, and what do you value about it?
   ‍
   A: That’s just a really beautiful song. My first exposure to it was in
   Peter Gabriel’s “Passion” where it was played by Vache Hovsepyan and
   Antranik Askarian. In general I am a big fan of the lonely solo voice.
   I don’t know if there’s anything about this particular part of the
   world, so much as I’m drawn to any music that isn’t derived from the
   western European tradition, which elevates harmony to such a degree
   that a lot of individual expression is often sacrificed. I like the
   western European music too, but I crave the things it leaves behind.
   It’s also a very idiosyncratic artifact of a very particular culture;
   it’s very high-tech, in a way, and it loses something that is more
   primordial and universal.
   One thing I’d like to do with the LinnStrument is take western harmony,
   particularly 20th century harmony, and spread it out horizontally to be
   played in a less western melodic style. There are elements of that in
   my work but to really pull it off I’m going to need to become less
   dependent on the LEDs.

   ‍Q: You tune your LinnStrument in row intervals of musical fifths (7
   semitones), like a violin or cello. Why? How would you describe the
   advantages of this?
   ‍
   A: The initial decision to use fifths was rather arbitrary, “let’s be
   cool and different.” Also there was a Bach piece I thought I might
   learn (which turned out to be way too ambitious at the time, but I have
   since recorded) that was written for violin, so it was much easier to
   play using fifths. I figured I would at least sometimes go back to
   using fourths, which I was already familiar with from playing my Warr
   Guitar, but it turned out every time I did I was dissatisfied with the
   results.
   They’re not necessarily advantages, but here are some things I like
   about the fifths tuning.
   Using one or two notes in the left hand and two or three in the right
   allows very fluid scale shapes with four notes per row. The fourths
   tuning I think is better suited to one-handed play, or a more piano
   style where each hand is doing its own thing rather than playing one
   integrated line.
   Not only am I weird in using fifths, but I also mostly play
   multi-monophonically with channel per row. That means I can’t play
   simultaneous notes on the same row, and that puts my thirds rather far
   away from each other. I actually like this quite a bit, because it
   forces me to build my chords out of fifths and sixths, which are
   harmonically equivalent to thirds but they cover a wider space and they
   feel bigger and more open to me.
   There are disadvantages too. If i were playing a bassline with the left
   hand and melody in the right, there’s much more stretching involved.
   And if I’m playing chords built of fifths, i need to be extra careful
   not to make the dreaded four corners shape.
   I should also say, fifths is what I like for improvisation. If I’m
   learning a part, I can use whichever tuning makes the most sense for
   that part. There’s very little difficulty in crossing over.
   ‍

   ‍Q: What advice do you have for LinnStrumentalists who wish to develop
   some of the skills you demonstrate in your videos?
   A: Play with monophonic sounds. Don’t lose too much volume to pressure
   modulation. Focus on single lines, play slowly, get a feel for the
   phrase and which notes should be accented by a bend, timbre shift, or
   vibrato. Practice your vibrato, practice your slides so you can stick
   the landing. Turn pitch quantization off while practicing to develop
   your ear and your accuracy. Once you have enough confidence, try
   leaving it off, because subtle variations will add depth and humanity
   to your performance. Practice with a wide variation in your Y-axis
   timbre; this way you’ll be able to hear where your fingers are landing
   and this will help you learn accuracy in that dimension. Work to make
   sure each note is delivered to the best of your ability. Play
   melodically with two hands, one hand moving to a new position while the
   other is playing. Use a metronome to keep yourself from rushing through
   things that demand attention.
   [Note from Roger: I suggest playing some of the beautiful sounds Max
   has created for LinnStrument's official synth Surge XT. In Surge XT's
   "LinnStrument MPE" folder, "Winds" subfolder, play the sounds that show
   "thoughtForm" as author. My favorite is "Duduk". These sounds response
   beautifully to the type of subtle, 3D touch expression that Max uses,
   and have an attractive acoustic quality.]
   ‍

   Q: If you don’t mind my asking, what do you do for a living, and how
   does this work affect your music?
   I do freelance programming. I think it does have an influence on my
   music, mostly in setting up sounds and programming synthesizers.
   There’s sort of a programmer’s brain which is handy to have in thinking
   about things as discrete but interdependent objects, building logical
   systems, and sometimes when I need a tool that isn’t available I can
   just write it. It also helps me to see that everything is information,
   and usually interchangeable, so a lot of my musical ideas easily become
   visual ideas and vice versa. Wiring a modular synth is almost exactly
   the same as building a node tree in Blender.
   There are also similarities with composition. For me writing music is
   largely a process of creating problems and then solving them, which can
   be a lot of fun. Unfortunately in programming no one seems to
   appreciate one’s talent for creating problems.

   ‍Q: Your music has an attractive sense of calm and peace, as does your
   personal demeanor. How do you achieve this is in a modern world often
   filled with noise and distraction? For example, do you meditate?
   A: Haha, I’m glad I come across that way. It often looks very different
   from the inside.
   ‍
   I do meditate but it’s a spiritual practice not really meant to induce
   calm. It can actually be fairly intense so it is not a daily or monthly
   or sometimes even annual practice. But maybe it helps me keep things in
   perspective.
   Playing the LinnStrument is a very meditative practice for me. The
   connection to the sound is so immediate, it’s easy to become lost in
   it. It’s very effective at shutting down the chattering part of the
   mind—the one that’s always complaining—and letting another mode of
   consciousness come to the surface which is quite calm and peaceful,
   accepting and delighted to let these sounds pass through it. I do hope
   some of that feeling is communicated to the listener.
   ‍

   Q: In a time when many electronic musicians focus on beats, sequences
   and loops, what future do you see for expressive touch control of
   synthesis as in LinnStrument? Do you think it will be a small part of
   musical performance, or eventually grow into the musical mainstream?
   A: I think it will grow. Synthesizers are obviously here to stay, and
   MPE is the best way to control them, so I think there’s a degree of
   inevitability to it. But it’s slow because these are real instruments
   and it takes time to develop skill. With the LinnStrument in
   particular, it’s so easy to play. And by that I don’t just mean to tell
   people you should get one for your kid (you should) but also, you have
   fifteen notes to work with, each note is as expressive as a solo
   violin, you can fit three or four octaves under each hand, and it can
   make any sound you want. Imagine what a Bach could do with this thing!
   I think even the best of us are only scratching the surface of its
   potential at this point.  When performers start approaching mastery is
   when it will start to be mainstream.
   One thing I think we will see—and my inbox is eagerly awaiting job
   offers—is small-budget films being scored by a single MPE player rather
   than stock loops or other suboptimal alternatives. Synths with
   expression allow us to create soundscapes on par with big hollywood
   productions.
   While I say it’s easy to play, it’s not necessarily easy to set up, and
   I think people can be discouraged if they load up a sound that isn’t
   really suited to the way their hands want to play. I know I had more
   than a few moments of “why are my drowning cats so quiet?” in the
   beginning. That’s why I’m doing the Surge tutorials. I think some basic
   knowledge in how to shape your own sound will go a long way towards
   opening up how much fun it is to practice your LinnStrument.
   I do want to say one more thing about sound. I think it makes a lot of
   sense to use acoustic instruments as inspiration, as a common language,
   and as guides when making sound. But no one is going to pay you to
   sound like a violin when they could as easily pay a violinist. So I’m
   hoping, with more players getting comfortable making their own sounds,
   that we will start to see some innovation and the emergence of sounds
   that are impossible to make with another instrument, and that will go a
   long way towards securing MPE a place in the mainstream.
   I recorded a [23]short promo a few years ago for Pittsburgh Modular’s
   Votage Research Lab. I just did some of my normal phrygian dominant
   noodling, and this is maybe the one time I did not program my own
   sound, because I had very little idea how to use the Lab and I had the
   experts in the room with me, so I just made some suggestions and let
   them wire it up. I think the sound is absolutely sick and could not
   exist without being played controlled by the Linnstrument or something
   similar.
   ‍
   ‍

Fontaine Burnett

   September 1, 2023
   Fontaine Burnett is one of my favorite LinnStrument players, using
   LinnStrument for two-handed piano-style play. I enjoy his beautiful
   chord voicings, his composition, and the sensitivity of his playing. He
   appears in two of the “LinnStrumentalists” compilation videos:
   ‍
   “[24]The LinnStrumentalists 2”
   “[25]The LinnStrumentalists 3”
   He has also created two tutorial videos about his LinnStrument playing
   technique:
   ‍
   “[26]Fontaine’s Fingerfood Episode 1”
   “[27]Fontaine’s Fingerfood Episode 2 - the Eight-Fingered Hand”
   Fontaine is an American ex-pat living near Hamburg, Germany, and is a
   multi-instrumentalist who also plays bass, guitar, keyboards, lapsteel,
   ukulele, percussion, harmonica and sings. [28]Here’s his YouTube
   channel.
   Q: Hi Fontaine. I enjoy your LinnStrument videos, especially your
   beautiful chord voicings and the sensitivity of your playing. In your
   video “For McCoy”, you open with a graphic “On the Grid”, and I also
   notice that your studio contains some other grid instruments. Had you
   been drawn to the grid format before LinnStrument and if so, why?
   A: Thank you for the kind words Roger…that sure means a lot to me! Yes,
   I had originally come to the grid as a compact replacement for
   keyboards.  A few years back I had gotten involved in a couple of
   electronic music projects and also had been doing a lot of DJing. I
   wanted to integrate sample loops and play other sounds in my sets
   without having to carry a large keyboard rig along with all the other
   stuff I had to lug around. My first grid was the Novation Launchpad. At
   first, I mainly used it to launch clips, fingerdrum and play the
   occasional melody line. Eventually, I started soloing with it and added
   chords. The grid in the fourths layout immediately made sense to me
   because of my history as a bassist, and around 2019 the grid really
   started to become an important part of both my live and studio rigs, so
   I added the Akai Force and Polyend/Dreadbox Medusa to my setup. I had
   become aware of the Linnstrument but wasn‘t one-hundred percent sure if
   it would be for me. Well, now I am sure. It is by far the best grid
   instrument available on the market. So in the beginning of 2020 I took
   delivery of my first LinnStrument. Then the pandemic hit and I had a
   lot of time to get familiar with it. Becoming a grid player (and more
   specifically a LinnStrumentalist) has had a major impact on my musical
   life the last couple of years. I really feel somehow connected to the
   future of music making. I hope to see more and more musicians adopting
   the grid…especially young people. Maybe one day we‘ll see kids getting
   on school busses with LinnStruments in their backpacks.  I think a
   LinnStrument is an excellent choice of instrument for beginning
   musicians as well as professionals. I would also love to somehow get
   involved in helping develop future generations of grid instruments.
   Q: In your video “The eight fingered hand”, you discuss using both
   hands to play or arpeggiate more complex chords, acting more as a
   single many-fingered hand than two separate hands. I found this useful
   in my playing, and find it similar to how some jazz pianists play,
   blurring the line between accompaniment and melody. Can you say more
   about this?
   A: Sure! One thing I really love about the Linnstrument is how it
   brings together so many worlds…the keyboard world, the stringed
   instrument world, the percussion world, the worlds of brass and
   woodwinds.  When most musicians think about two handed playing, they
   generally default to the idea of the classic pianistic way of playing.
   That is, the left hand and right hand have fairly defined roles. Left
   hand does the low notes/chords and the right hand does melody/solos.
   Physically speaking this makes a lot of sense if you are focusing on
   the Linnstrument‘s keyboard heritage. But once you begin to get
   familiar with the stringed instrument logic of the layout, you aren‘t
   constricted by the left/right paradigm. You can take advantage of the
   notes made available by playing vertically across the surface of the
   Linnstrument. Both hands share the task of voicing the chords and
   playing the bass and melodies. As you said, the line between assigned
   roles blurs. In my mind, it is a more „guitar“ oriented way of
   approaching the grid. Keeping the hands closer together increases
   accuracy in your playing and makes it easier to visually keep track of
   what you are playing.  That being said, there are moments where the
   traditional left/right way is musically more useful. I‘d encourage
   players to get familiar with both approaches and choose whichever one
   is most appropriate for the music and the moment.
   Q: In your video “Fontaine’s Fingerfood Episode 1”, you state that
   LinnStrument’s string/grid pitch arrangement makes “the inherent
   geometry of music” easier to see. Can you say more?
   A: Certainly! Guitarists are sure to be familiar with the concept of
   movable chord shapes.  Closed position chords that can be transposed up
   and down the neck of the guitar without changing the shape of your
   hand. You learn the shape of the voicing in one key and simply move it
   to where you need it. The isomorphic layout of the Linn facilitates
   this even more as the intervals between rows or „strings“ are
   consistent. It‘s this consistency that reveals to us the patterns and
   geometry of music. Connecting lines of intervals create simple shapes.
   Using the eight-fingered hand we can add these simple shapes together
   to create more complex shapes and thus more complex harmonies and
   melodic material. These relationships remain consistent throughout the
   surface of the LinnStrument. An isomorphic layout is by definition „key
   agnostic“ whereas the piano keyboard (and to a certain extent the
   guitar) are biased toward certain keys. The inherent geometry of the
   western musical system is somewhat obscured on a traditional keyboard
   due to the fact that these shapes are always changing as we modulate
   from tonal center to tonal center. The grid layout alleviates this
   problem and allows us to see this geometry more clearly.
   Q: Are you ever tempted to use LinnStrument’s touch expression for
   other types of sounds, for example bending a note’s pitch or using
   pressure to control loudness? If not, that’s OK— your playing is
   wonderfully expressive as it is.
   A: Not only am I tempted…I actually do use the touch expression quite
   extensively. For those who have watched my videos, it might seem that I
   only use the LinnStrument for the merits of its layout, but in day to
   day use as a composition and performance tool, I take advantage of its
   incredible MPE implementation as well. Whether it‘s for animating
   woodwind and string sounds with continuous control or adding vibrato
   with pitch bend or modulating synth parameters with pressure, I use it
   quite a lot. I mean, why own a LinnStrument if you don‘t want to make
   use of these capabilities? :)  Some of the videos that I have planned
   for the near future will definitely show more of me using the MPE
   stuff. That being said, no amount of bending, wiggling or sliding make
   for expressive playing alone. Subtleties in timing, phrasing, dynamics,
   emotional connection and (of course) good taste, all play a huge role
   in ultimately being expressive on any instrument.
   Q: What advice do you have for LinnStrumentalists who wish to develop
   some of the skills you demonstrate in your videos?
   A: Well, first would be to dive a bit into the history of the
   instruments that preceded the LinnStrument. The Linn wasn‘t born in a
   vacuum. It‘s a culmination of many centuries of musical instrument
   evolution and its corresponding playing techniques. There are a tons of
   skills that can be gleaned from the world of piano, guitar, percussion
   and more.
   Second would be to train your hand/ear coordination. Connect what you
   hear to what you play. Learn to sing with your hands. I‘ve got a video
   about this coming soon…stay tuned!
   The third thing would be to embrace simplicity. All complex things are
   really just networks of simple things. I recently had an experience
   while I was checking out some Bill Evans transcriptions. His lush and
   complex sounding chords and melodies were just so amazingly
   beautiful…breathtaking. Upon checking the transcriptions I was slightly
   shocked to see that most of the time he was using simple three and four
   note chord voicings. He was able to create the illusion that there was
   far more going on than there was just by implying these lush harmonies
   without actually playing them. That says a lot about how music is
   perceived and what we can do to excite the imagination of the
   listener…aural symbolism for abstract ideas and emotions. Both the mind
   and heart respond very strongly to simple input…so keep it simple. This
   should be one of the primary goals for he or she who wishes to master
   music; the ability to elicit with simple tools, strong images in the
   mind and strong emotions in the heart.
   ‍

Jesse Washmon

   August 1, 2023
   Jesse Washmon of Denton, Texas is a highly proficient player of
   LinnStrument and guitar, and has created many skilled LinnStrument
   performance videos of classical music. It is particularly interesting
   that Jesse chooses to play LinnStrument in a vertical orientation,
   rotating it 90 degrees while using the standard Fourths String Layout
   in this orientation.
   Here are Jesse’s segments from two of my “LinnStrumentalists”
   compilations:
   ‍
   * “[29]The LinnStrumentalists 3”, position 3:20 (“Elegie Op. 3 No. 1”
   by S. Rachmaninoff)
   * "[30]The LinnStrumentalists 2", position 2:16 (“Un Sospiro” by Franz
   Liszt)
   [31]Here is Jesse's YouTube channel, where you can see the full
   versions of the above segments, as well as many other videos. And
   [32]here is Jesse's site.
   If anyone would like to try playing LinnStrument in the vertical
   orientation, Jesse has provided information on how to do this on the
   LinnStrument "[33]Tips & Tricks" page, under the tip “Play LinnStrument
   in vertical orientation”.
   ‍
   ‍
   Q: Jesse, thank you for doing this interview. I’d like to talk about
   your use of Linnstrument in the vertical orientation. Why do you prefer
   this, and what do you see as the advantages?
   A: Hi Roger, my pleasure! The Linnstrument has become a part of me and
   my soul, and I have you to thank for that! It is a wonderful instrument
   that is the closest thing (I feel) to recreating a piano effect from a
   pad instrument on the market.
   In regards to the vertical orientation , this was a result of my
   experimentation in grid layouts and the efficiency of scale movement in
   the upwards direction. Ergonomically, on the guitar, we have
   significant dexterity when our hand and fingers remain in a stable
   position, while our wrist moves. I have always found vertical movement
   on the guitar, (movement from the low e to the high e or vise-versa) to
   work well with scales, arpeggios, intervallic movements, etc. With
   vertical movement, one’s hand does not have to change position and the
   fingers stay in a fixed position (mostly). I like to compare fingers to
   keys on piano or a woodwind instrument, in that the more they can hover
   over where they need to be, the better.
   That being said, there is a great deal to say about horizontal guitar
   playing. Beautiful glissandos can be achieved - melodic inflections
   that mimic the nature of the human voice. Very efficient playing of
   sequences of close groupings of notes (i.e. 123, 234, 345, 456, etc.),
   which mostly can be done just as quickly as when done vertically
   depending on the sequence. My rule of thumb as far as this goes - if
   you have an additional hand movement necessary before your next finger
   is over the note you need to be at, you are not doing the most
   efficient fingering (unless you have no other choice). I’m sure there
   are exceptions to this general rule, but for the most part, it’s pretty
   true. I have not used the Linstrument in its horizontal orientation,
   though the power of its expressiveness in glissandos is very formidable
   and it stands as a pioneer in regards to electronic expressive
   capabilities in many ways.
   The aspect of pitch range vs distance is important as well, this I feel
   the vertical format to be better suited for. With fourth intervals
   across grids, one is able to span the course of an octave in merely
   three rows. This, of course allows for an (almost) identical tuning of
   the Linnstrument to that of the grand piano (save for just a few
   notes). The nature of the bass section in the lower half of the
   Linnstrument and the treble section allows for the hand space to be
   split accordingly. Hand space can also be split vertically (i.e. left
   and right side). The latter is a problematic issue with the vertical
   tuning format, in that hand spacing in this regard is limited. A
   slightly larger grid, perhaps 12x16 would accommodate for this. Nothing
   is perfect.
   Q: Given that your videos are of piano-style two-handed play, how would
   you compare Linnstrument's Fourths String Layout to the conventional
   piano and guitar pitch arrangements?
   A: It's sort of a mash-up of both. I’ve thought about it a fair amount.
   Like anything, there are advantages and disadvantages. To preface, I
   want to state that I am far more proficient at guitar than I am at
   piano, but I do play some piano.
   With the grid layout, you basically get the congruence of the guitar
   (they are both grids, but one shifted a half-step up in one area of the
   grid) with the addition of a left hand. That’s a lot. When I was first
   experimenting with grid systems, I was contemplating playing an
   arrangement of Claire de Lune on guitar, but was dissatisfied with the
   transcription issue related to the guitar. The vertical grid format I
   developed solved that. I could have all the notes now! I could do this
   all without dealing with the asymmetry of the piano. Because of the
   natural symmetry of grid-based systems and my experience with the
   guitar, learning this new format was incredibly intuitive.
   ‍
   Oh yeah, one more thing. One consideration in Linnstrument playing is
   the option of different shapes for the same melodic or harmonic figure,
   which does not occur with piano. It is a guitar problem that I am used
   to, but is not an issue that piano literature addresses, which does add
   a layer of trial and error and guess work that would not be there if
   learned on the piano.
   ‍
   Q: Have you ever experimented with fourths tuning on guitar?
   A: I have not. Though I’ve always been curious about it. I have a 5
   string bass and have gotten a taste of it, though the scale length is
   different. I have always been interested in the development of
   instruments and instrumental pedagogy in regards to the structure of
   the instrument itself. How our technique is dependent on the designs,
   customs, and information we have available.
   When I think about this subject of a fourths layout on a guitar, I am
   always reminded of Allen Holdsworth’s workshop at UNT that I attended
   when I was in my undergrad. Someone asked him the same questions and he
   responded with “That (the major third interval) is for campfires and
   cowboy chords. If it were up to me I would cut the bugger off”. That
   really enlightened me in the sense that I had never really questioned
   this predefined structure about the guitar. It also gives rise to a
   myriad of questions about the mastery of the instrument. For instance,
   we have a vast number of techniques that are dependent on the guitar's
   original tuning (ex. the chord solo styles of bop-era guitarists such
   as Joe Pass and Jim Hall, particularly on the first four strings). It’s
   sort of a chicken vs the egg thing that is also dependent on the nature
   and nurture of the chicken. A ten-year old Joe Pass was probably not
   experimenting with “perfected” fourths tuning systems. By the same
   token, the “imperfection” of the guitar’s traditional layout may have
   even be better suited to his needs (certainly the case for the full
   bars with high-reaching melody notes that Pass would make extensive use
   of).
   I suppose the problem (if you call it that) is there is not much of a
   chance of these concepts reaching musical minds early in their
   development. Which is pretty true of most instruments (ire. different
   tuning systems on the piano). Though, there are plenty of musical dudes
   who will certainly figure it out later in their lives. :)
   Q: In learning the compositions for your videos, what challenges did
   you encounter in choosing the fingerings that you used? Any specific
   examples?
   A: Many. Some that I don’t want to remember. Some that I am very proud
   of. One that stood out in particular was in one of the final sections
   of Un Sospiro where the melody is placed above the broken chordal
   arpeggios in the right hand. I had to conceive of a fingering for the
   arpeggio that ended on the thumb so it could propel the hand forward to
   reach the next chord without taking too long and jeopardizing the
   overall rhythm and playability. I actually showed this exact example to
   some music friends of mine. I remember playing it for them and then
   describing the process of trial and error that it took to find the
   fingering. I first had to learn the section of music well enough to
   hear the phrase and have a strong visual conception of it, estimating
   the fingering. By nature of hitting the same notes and shapes enough,
   eventually you gain the dexterity to start making decisions involving
   physical movements and can begin experimentation with different
   fingerings. This process, I feel, becomes a force of will due to the
   amount of focus involved. Everything has to come together and you have
   to try swinging as many ways as you can before you hit the ball.
   ‍
   In addition, there are also passages that simply cannot be played as
   quickly on pad devices (or at least ones with narrow vertical
   orientations) as can be played on piano. One example of this is the
   cadenza passage in Un Sospiro that uses 2nd intervals and is played at
   incredibly fast tempos. I’ve concluded that this would be possible on a
   12x16 or 16x16 grid, where both hands have ample space. This is another
   advantage of the grid format - the allowance of contiguous notes in
   different parts of the keyboard, which would solve some of hand spacing
   issues of the piano, I feel.
   Q: You’re quite an accomplished jazz guitarist, yet your Linnstrument
   videos have all been of classical music? Why? Do you find jazz
   improvisation to be more difficult on Linnstrument?
   A: I never really approached the Linnstrument with jazz in mind. I
   suppose I’ve gotten over the tendency to feel like I need to know
   everything about each instrument I play. I try to think of music as
   these spheres that you enter, and each sphere has its own little
   attractive gateways. Guitar, for me, was being at these late night jams
   at parties my parents would take me to and being mesmerized by sort of
   everything at once. Or trips to a jazz club in Fort Worth, a speak-easy
   in the basement of a building in downtown Sundance Square.
   I suppose in an objective sense, it follows logically to use what I
   know harmonically and translate that to the Linnstrument. It didn’t
   really make sense for me in a musical direction. I found myself diving
   into piano-literature and getting an opportunity to explore a world
   that I knew of, but never anticipated immersing myself further into.
   The multi-media, artistic aspects of it followed suit due to the amount
   of time I was at home (COVID) and it became a foray as well into the
   realm of sound design.
   Thinking back on it, I felt much of the same sort of mesmerization that
   I had felt in high school when I would see some of the best jazz
   musicians in Denton play. That sort of drunkenness and love is key, I
   feel. If you have that, you’ll do whatever it takes. The objective part
   really isn’t it, even though we like to fool ourselves that it is.
   Q: I see on your site that you offer lessons on guitar, cello and
   piano. Have you considered offering Linnstrument lessons via video?
   A: I have had a few people ask and one serious inquiry. I currently
   don’t. It’s a battle gauging how much goes into the organization of it
   on my end and the level or seriousness of the student.
   Q: Any additional thoughts you’d like to add that may be of interest to
   other Linnstrument players?
   A: Comfort and dexterity take time (for me at least). I believe this to
   be intrinsic to our emotions that dictate confidence and fear. Acting
   out of love, I find to be most use in accomplishing anything musically.
   In music, we can find hints and direction in others, but ultimately we
   have to go on the dive alone and hope we find some cool caves.

Jeremy Cubert

   July 1, 2023
   ‍
   Jeremy is a very talented musician and one of my favorite LinnStrument
   players, as well as one of the early LinnStrument owners. I admire him
   for his beautiful solo improvisation skills, not only on LinnStrument
   but also on piano, guitar, Chapman Stick, and Zendrum.
   ‍
   Here are some videos of Jeremy playing LinnStrument:
   ‍
   1) “[34]Jeremy Cubert Plays LinnStrument” (2016)
   2) “The LinnStruments” (2018): locations [35]0:15, [36]2:30, [37]7:08,
   [38]11:14.
   3) “The LinnStrumentalsists 2” (2021): locations [39]4:54, [40]3:39,
   [41]4.54.
   4) “The LinnStrumentalists 3” (2023), location [42]4:22.
   And [43]here is Jeremy’s web site. [44]
   ‍
   Q: Hi Jeremy. I’ve had the pleasure of knowing you since 2015 when you
   obtained your LinnStrument, and was immediately impressed by your solo
   improvisation skills. Given that you already played piano and guitar,
   what drew you to LinnStrument?
   ‍
   A: I saw your LinnStrument demonstration at MoogFest 2013 and
   immediately saw how LinnStrument solved two problems I had using
   monophonic lead synthesizers.
   ‍
   First, LinnStrument combines all the expression features of a keyboard
   synthesizer into one finger - modulation, pitch bend, velocity, and
   aftertouch. Instead of needing two hands to play a lead synth, you
   could use one hand while the other plays piano/organ/polysynth.
   Second, as a Chapman Stick player, I spent years learning the fourths
   tuning on the melody side of the Chapman Stick. While there was an
   option to add MIDI to the Stick, I wished there was an easier option.
   It appeared to me the technique would be immediately transferable to
   the world of MIDI and synths and it was!
   ‍
   Q: I was also impressed with how quickly you adapted your skills to
   LinnStrument’s pitch arrangement and pads. How was that process of
   adaptation for you?
   A: My background as a Chapman Stick player was directly transferable to
   LinnStrument due to the fourths tuning on the melody side of the
   Chapman Stick. However, even the differences between LinnStrument and
   Stick expanded the playing options. For example, you cannot play more
   than one pitch on a single string of a guitar/Stick/Bass. However, you
   can on the LinnStrument. This feature opened up new chord shapes and
   double-stop features for lead playing.
   For live playing, I sometimes play Stick and LinnStrument at the same
   time (bass part on the Stick and melody on the LinnStrument).
   Q: I like how you use LinnStrument to play convincing wind,
   bowed-string, and guitar parts. What have you learned about using
   LinnStrument’s expressive control to achieve convincing performance
   gestures on these instruments?
   ‍
   A: The expressive capabilities of LinnStrument opened up new worlds for
   me. I finally felt comfortable enough playing wind and bowed instrument
   parts for my solo recordings because of the nuanced expressive
   capability of LinnStrument combined with, for example, the Audio
   Modeling plugins for strings and saxophone. I do not claim that these
   techniques can replace a real string or wind player, but they allow me
   to approach a similar kind of expressive play I would not be able to
   achieve on a standard keyboard. I have been asked to add virtual string
   quartets and solo string parts to various recordings.
   For sampled guitar libraries (like the Orange Tree Sample and Impact
   Soundworks libraries), playing the fourth tuning and using guitar-like
   pitch bend techniques has given me much better results for acoustic and
   electric guitars and electric and upright bass virtual instruments.
   Harmonics and mutes can be achieved by setting velocity or pressure
   levels or using a pad outside the range of the instrument to trigger an
   articulation. Although I play guitar, my tapping/LinnStrument technique
   is better and I often achieve better results using LinnStrument than
   attempting the same lead part on a real guitar.
   ‍
   Q: Another part of your playing that I like is your unique ability to
   create overdubbed recordings in which you play all parts, but the
   finished recording sounds like a live ensemble in which the players are
   playing live together, responding in real time to what the others are
   playing. How do you achieve this?
   ‍
   A: I pick one instrument to be the foundation of a piece - usually
   piano, drums (played on a Zendrum), or Chapman Stick. I have a melody
   or theme in mind and improvise a track to a click in my DAW. I add the
   drums next and use the visual cues on the foundational track I recorded
   to help me hit accents, starts, and stops in time. Then I add a bass
   track followed by melody tracks. I use LinnStrument for all the melody
   tracks - everything other than piano and organ.
   I have been working on two-handed playing more and more on the
   LinnStrument and I have started to incorporate that more into my
   recordings.
   ‍
   Q: Your day gig is as an intellectual property attorney specializing in
   life sciences, which would seem to require an analytical and scientific
   mind. But in your playing I see more of a free-form, creative and
   experimental mind. Do  you see these two worlds as being similar,
   different, complimentary? And how does one affect the other?
   ‍
   A: I think they are complimentary. The skills I develop from the
   musical, creative, free-form side of the brain help me be more creative
   in solving legal problems. The analytical, scientific skills from my
   day job help me solve the inevitable technical issues one has using
   computers for electronic music.
   ‍
   Q: Have you used LinnStrument in live performances? Have you had to
   overcome any challenges using LinnStrument live?
   ‍
   A: I played LinnStrument live at MoogFest a few years after seeing your
   demonstration! It was relatively straightforward using LinnStrument
   connected through a USB cable through an Apple Connection Kit to an
   iPad - using a long cable allowed me to move around a bit. I used
   AniMoog on the iPad as my sound source and it was well-received.
   I now have LinnStrument connected through an iConnectivity interface to
   a Haken Continuumini on the upper level of my keyboard stand - the
   LinnStrument stacks neatly on the narrow ContinuuMini. This not only
   gives me access to all the great expressive sounds on the Continuumini
   but I can use both the LinnStrument and ContinuuMini surfaces to play
   depending on what the song calls for and both can be played at the same
   time.

Jordan Rudess

   June 1, 2023
   ‍
   Jordan Rudess (of Dream Theater fame) is one of my (Roger's) favorite
   musicians. I recently attended a piano concert of his in San Francisco
   and both I and the audience were enthralled by his unique and
   extraordinary talents.
   He also created an iPad app called [45]GeoShred, which like
   LinnStrument has its pitches arranged in rows of chromatics offset by
   musical fourth intervals, which I call the Fourths String Layout.
   ([46]Here's a video of him playing LinnStrument, using his GeoSWAM
   sounds for GeoShred.) In this interview, I ask him about his choice of
   this pitch arrangement and why he likes it.
   Q: Hi Jordan— thanks for doing this interview, in which I’d like to
   focus on the 4ths String Pitch Layout, my name for the pitch
   arrangement used in both my LinnStrument and your GeoShred app. What do
   you see as the advantages for soloing?
   ‍A: Soloing on an instrument based on fourths makes a lot of sense once
   a player gets used to it. Being able to access an extended range of
   notes in a small amount of physical space is a powerful tool! Uniform
   finger patterns can really open up so many cool musical ideas and
   shapes! For anyone with Relative pitch, a fourth layout is ideal
   because transposition and general navigation of the instrument become a
   much easier task.
   ‍Q: What do you see as the advantages for chord fingering?
   ‍A: Let me start by saying that as a player I use my Geoshred
   instrument mostly for melody and solos. That said- those who would
   approach an instrument based on fourths for chordal play can find many
   very positive aspects to that approach.Consistent shapes are a big one.
   Once you learn any chord shapes, they remain consistent anywhere on the
   playing surface. Compared to a keyboard it’s a whole lot easier to
   navigate and find voicings. On a piano almost every chord (even if it
   is the same chord type) is a different shape!      I also think that
   because the fourths layout offers an extended range, the playing
   surface can open up the possibility of discovering new ideas and fresh
   harmonic interest.
   ‍Q: You’re clearly an excellent pianist. How would you contrast the
   piano layout and the 4ths layout?
   ‍A: I grew up playing the piano from a very young age. It’s absolutely
   my first language and therefore very natural for me. The main
   difference is in the fact that playing the same types of chords and
   scales in different keys all have different fingering and this could be
   quite cumbersome- especially for someone who is just learning the
   instrument. I would think that the 4ths layout would be easier to
   absorb and get used to for most people!
   ‍Q: What about two-handed piano-style play, playing accompaniment and
   solo at the same time? I notice that you do this spectacularly well on
   piano, but you generally use GeoShred for soloing. Do you think the
   4ths layout is inherently more difficult than the piano for such
   two-handed play?
   ‍A: The invention of GeoShred initially happened because I wanted to
   find a way to be able to go between a fretless type of modality and a
   diatonic one. I had Steve Vai and Jeff Beck in mind, and I was mostly
   thinking about soloing! I think it’s probably more about what you spend
   time practicing than one being more difficult than the other, I also
   think that each instrument layout naturally lends itself to different
   approaches and musical styles. There will definitely be things that are
   easier to play on something like the Linnstrument and Geoshred than
   piano and of course techniques on piano might be very difficult the
   other way around!
   ‍Q: Do you think that in 50 years, the 4ths layout will be in common
   use in instruments at that time? Or do you think the piano pitch layout
   will still dominate?
   ‍A: I believe that both layouts will remain vital to music making. They
   are both such a big part of so many musicians lives that I believe we
   will be using these for a long time to come.

     * [47]About us
     * [48]Contact US
     * [49]Newsletter

   © 2020 ROGER LINN DESIGN

References

   Visible links:
   1. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/linnstrument
   2. https://www.rogerlinndesignstore.com/Default.asp
   3. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/where-to-buy-dealers
   4. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-register-your-linnstrument
   5. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/where-to-buy-discounts
   6. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/buying-used
   7. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument
   8. https://www.sequential.com/product/tempest/?referer=rogerlinndesign.com
   9. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-adrenalinn
  10. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-mpc60-version-3-10
  11. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-legacy-products
  12. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-roger-linn-design
  13. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-museum
  14. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/roger-faq
  15. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-press
  16. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-grammy
  17. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/more/stanford-workshop
  18. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-contact
  19. https://youtu.be/7TTp7GKltHQ?t=86
  20. https://youtu.be/MDTikW1BFt8?t=162
  21. https://www.youtube.com/@thoughtFormMax
  22. https://www.thoughtformmusic.com/
  23. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L4-dr3al_g8
  24. https://youtu.be/7TTp7GKltHQ?si=2NCUNVYUhFqa0rWB&t=40
  25. https://youtu.be/MDTikW1BFt8?si=hNeaPUPfEy_alSZr&t=77
  26. https://youtu.be/GrNNKje9siA?si=eNSMASCcbXiGLdpi
  27. https://youtu.be/uX-rXyFM80s?si=U8nR3dlrM5w3gByK
  28. https://www.youtube.com/@FontaineBurnett
  29. https://youtu.be/MDTikW1BFt8?t=200
  30. https://youtu.be/7TTp7GKltHQ?t=136
  31. https://www.youtube.com/@JesseWashmon
  32. http://jessewashmon.com/
  33. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-linnstrument-tips-tricks
  34. https://youtu.be/flKMz9UmqAw
  35. https://youtu.be/ypHCxq93Jsk?t=16
  36. https://youtu.be/ypHCxq93Jsk?t=151
  37. https://youtu.be/ypHCxq93Jsk?t=429
  38. https://youtu.be/ypHCxq93Jsk?t=675
  39. https://youtu.be/7TTp7GKltHQ?t=295
  40. https://youtu.be/7TTp7GKltHQ?t=220
  41. https://youtu.be/7TTp7GKltHQ?t=295
  42. https://youtu.be/MDTikW1BFt8?t=263
  43. https://jeremycubert.com/home
  44. https://jeremycubert.com/home
  45. https://apps.apple.com/us/app/geoshred/id1064769019?platform=ipad
  46. https://youtu.be/MDTikW1BFt8?t=37
  47. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-roger-linn-design
  48. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-contact
  49. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/newsletters-home

   Hidden links:
  51. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/
  52. http://jessewashmon.com/
  53. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/
  54. https://www.facebook.com/RogerLinnDesign
  55. https://www.youtube.com/user/rogerlinndesign
  56. https://twitter.com/roger_linn
  57. https://www.instagram.com/roger.linn/
