   [1]Linnstrument
   Where to buy
   [2]ONLINE SHOP[3]DEALERS[4]REGISTRATION[5]DISCOUNTS [6]Buying USED
   Support
   [7]LINNSTRUMENT[8]TEMPEST[9]ADRENALINN[10]MPC60
   V3.10[11]LEGACY PRODUCTS
   OTHER
   [12]ABOUT RLD[13]Museum[14]Roger FAQs[15]Press[16]Grammy
   Award[17]Stanford Workshop[18]Contact

   LinnStrument Support
   [19]LinnStrument Support Home
   Manual
   [20]Register Dealer/Used Purchase
   [21]Getting Started
   [22]Panel Settings
   [23]Hooking it Up
   [24]FAQs
   [25]LinnStrument Forum on KVR
   [26]Recommended Sounds
   [27]Free Bitwig 8-Track
   [28]Free Surge XT Synth
   [29]Free Sounds for Logic/MainStage
   [30]Videos
   [31]Submit Video for next Compilation
   [32]Learning to play
   [33]Learn the LinnStrument video series
   [34]Creating Sounds
   [35]What is MPE?
   [36]How hard should I play?
   [37]Tips & Tricks
   [38]Smart MIDI
   [39]Samples vs. Synthesis
   [40]Updating Software
   [41]Installing Replacement Parts
   [42]Email Newsletters
   [43]Stolen Units
   [44]Monthly Zoom call with Roger
   [45]20% off on GeoSWAM instruments
   [46]Artist Interviews
   [47]For visually impaired users
   [48]Buying Used / Hardware Updates
   Developers
   [49]Source Code
   [50]MIDI Implementation
   [51]How to add MPE
   [52]User Firmware Mode
   About the Design
   [53]Design Goals & Choices
   [54]Piano vs. String layout
   [55]Why touch expression?
   [56]How the sensor works
   [57]"Making of LinnStrument" video
   [58]Early Design concepts
   [59]Engineering Files

Panel Settings

Version 2.3.3 Software

   Per Split SettingsPreset/VolumeOctave/TransposeSwitch 1&2 / SplitGlobal
   SettingsStep Sequencer

Per-Split Settings

Overview

   Per-Split Settings are settings that generally need to have different
   values for each of the two keyboard splits. For example, MIDI Channels
   is a Per-Split Setting because the left and right splits need to send
   over different MIDI channels.

   To view or change the Per-Split Settings, press the Per-Split Settings
   button and the button will light. Now notice that all the lights on
   LinnStrument's playing surface have changed:

   Now the upper four rows of lights indicate the status of the Per-Split
   Settings printed directly above each column. For each column, the
   status of the uppermost printed setting is indicated by the uppermost
   note pad; the status of the second-from-top printed setting is
   indicated by the second-from-top note pad; etc. For example, if the
   highest note pad in column 1 is lit, this indicates that "One Chan" is
   selected.

   Tip: The Per-Split Settings button has both momentary and toggle
   action:

   If held for more than 1/2 second, it is momentary, staying on only as
   long as you hold it. This is used for fast changes: hold Per-Split
   Settings, change a setting with your other hand, then releasing
   Per-Split Settings.

   Or if tapped briefly (held less than 1/2 second), it toggles between on
   and off with each press. This is better for one-handed use: turn on
   Per-Split Settings, change a setting, then press Per-Split Settings
   again to turn it off.

   Each of the Per-Split Settings is explained below.

   ‍

Select Split (columns 15 & 16)

   The Per-Split Settings screen includes two sets of settings-- one for
   the Left Split and another for the Right Split.

   If LEFT is selected here, the settings in the leftmost 14 columns apply
   to the Left Split.

   If RIGHT is selected, the settings in the leftmost 14 columns apply to
   the Right Split.

   Also, when Split mode is off, the entire playing surface will use
   either the Left or Right Split's settings, depending on which Split is
   selected here. And you can quickly switch between them while playing by
   double-tapping the Split button.

‍
MIDI Mode (column 1)

   There are three different ways that LinnStrument can send its MIDI
   information:

   1) One Chan (One Channel)
   All touches are sent over a single MIDI channel, called the Main
   channel. This is LinnStrument's default setting, making it compatible
   with every MIDI sound generator in existence, because all traditional
   MIDI keyboards send over a single MIDI channel. Click [60]here to learn
   about LinnStrument's Smart MIDI, which prevents conflicts over a single
   MIDI channel when playing simultaneous pitch slides or Y-axis
   movements.

   Tip: For best compatibility with standard one-channel (not MPE) synths
   and their preset sounds, which are optimized for traditional MIDI piano
   keyboards, use these settings:

   MIDI Mode: One Channel
   Main Channel: 1
   Bend Range: 2
   Timbre/Y: CC74
   Loudness/Z: Poly Pressure

   Hidden Setting: set all settings for one-channel non-MPE synths
   Hold this button for more than 1/2 second to instantly change the
   MIDI settings to the above values. (This feature was added in version
   2.3.1 software.)

   2) ChPerNote (Channel Per Note, also called MPE for MIDI Polyphonic
   Expression)
   Each touch is sent on its own unique MIDI channel, permitting
   independent 3D control for each simultaneous touch. Played notes are
   rotated through the assigned Per-Note Channels (see "MIDI Channels"
   below). Messages common to all notes (like Program Change, Sustain/CC64
   or Volume/CC7) are sent over the Main channel, or if no Main channel is
   selected, redundantly over all Per Note Channels.

   Hidden Setting: set all settings for MPE synths
   Hold this button for more than 1/2 second to instantly change other
   relevant Per-Split Settings for MPE compatibility. The button's light
   will turn light blue and these settings will be set as follows:

   Left split: Main Ch 1, Per-Note Chs 2-8
   Right split: Main Ch 16, Per-Note Chs 9-15
   Bend Range: 48 (This uses the hidden setting "Any Bend Range". See
   "Bend Range" heading below.)
   Timbre/Y: CC74
   Loudness/Z: Chan Pres

   Also, LinnStrument will send a MIDI Remote Activation message (RPN 6),
   which will remotely set an MPE sound generator to MPE mode and set its
   channels and Bend Range to match LinnStrument's.
   Note that if LinnStrument receives such a message from a synth, it will
   select Channel Per Note mode and set its Per-Note Channels and Bend
   Range to match the values in the received message.

   3) ChPerRow (Channel Per Row)
   Each row’s touches are sent on a unique MIDI channel. By default, the
   lowest row is sent over channel 1, the next over channel 2 and the
   highest row over channel 8. Messages common to all notes (like Program
   Change, Sustain/CC64 or Volume/CC7) are sent over the Main channel, or
   if no Main channel is selected, redundantly over all Per Row Channels.

   Hidden Setting: Reverse Row Order
   Normally the lowest row uses the lowest of the assigned 8 Per-Row
   Channels and the highest row uses the highest numbered channel. This
   can be a problem for some guitar synthesizers that always use channel 1
   for the highest row/string. In such cases, hold the ChPerRow button to
   reverse the channel order so that the highest row uses the lowest of
   the 8 assigned channels and the lowest row uses the highest channel
   number. The button's light will change to the split's accent color.

   ‍

MIDI Channels (columns 2 - 6)

   Columns 3 through 6 are used to select the MIDI channel(s) over which
   MIDI messages are sent. Depending on the selection in the View column
   (column 2), one of three MIDI channel assignments can be viewed or
   changed:

   1) If VIEW is set to Main Chan (main channel), you can view or change
   the Main MIDI channel in columns 3 - 6. By default, LinnStrument uses
   channel 1 for the left split (MPE lower zone) and channel 16 for the
   right split (MPE upper zone).
   If MIDI Mode is set to One Channel, then this setting determines the
   single channel over which all MIDI messages are sent.
   If MIDI Mode is set to Per-Note Channels or Per-Row Channels, then this
   setting determines the channel over which messages common to all
   touches (like Program Change, Sustain Pedal / CC64 or Volume / CC7) are
   sent. Or if no Main Channel is selected (press the selected channel to
   deselect it), common messages will be sent redundantly over all Per
   Note or Per Row Channels.

   2) If VIEW is set to PerNoteChs (Per-Note Channels), you can view or
   change in columns 3 - 6 which of the 16 MIDI channels are used for
   Per-Note messages. This is only useful if MIDI Mode is set to Channel
   Per Note. You can turn any of the channels on or off. By default,
   LinnStrument selects channels 2-8 for the left split and 9-15 for the
   right split.

   3) IF VIEW is set to PerRowChs (Per-Row Channels), you can view or
   change in columns 3 - 6 which of the 16 MIDI channels are used for
   Per-Note messages. A contiguous block of 8 channels is always selected.
   To change the selection, select the lowest channel of the 8-channel
   continuous block you wish to use.

   Tip: If using a non-MPE synth that permits each voice to receive on a
   unique MIDI channel, it can be used as an MPE synth. To do this, set
   each of the synth's voices to receive from one of LinnStrument's
   assigned Per-Note channels. However, only MPE synths have a Common
   channel (1 or 16) that is used to receive messages that apply to all
   voices such as sustain pedal (CC64), overall volume (CC7), etc.. To
   work around this limitation, Set MIDI Mode to ChPerNote and the "View"
   column to Main Chan, the deselect the lit channel button in columns 3-6
   so that no Main channel is selected. This will cause all such common
   messages to be sent redundantly over all of the Per-Note channels.

Bend Range (column 7)

   When you slide your finger left or right to perform pitch slides or
   bends, LinnStrument sends standard MIDI Pitch Bend messages. This
   setting determines the number of columns you must slide your finger
   left or right in order to send the minimum or maximum MIDI Pitch Bend
   value, equivalent to moving a MIDI keyboard's Bend Wheel fully forward
   or backward. For example, a setting of 12 means that sliding left or
   right 12 columns produces the maximum bend value. This should be set to
   the same Bend Range as in your synth. If set correctly, performing a
   pitch slide will finish on the same pitch as if you pressed the
   destination note pad directly. If not, this setting is wrong.

   By default, LinnStrument's Bend Range is set to +/- 2 semitones,
   because nearly all standard preset sounds on common synthesizers use a
   bend range of 2 semitones. Though this provides compatibility with
   common sounds, it also prevents pitch slides over 2 columns. To
   increase the range/distance of pitch slides, set the Bend Range in both
   LinnStrument and your synthesizer to a higher value. A value of 24 is
   ideal for LinnStrument because it permits pitch slides of up to 2
   octaves, which is the length of each row in the large LinnStrument
   model.

   The options are +/- 2, 3, 12 or 24 semitones.

   Hidden setting: Any Bend Range
   To select any Bend Range from 1 to 96 semitones, hold the "+/-24" pad
   and the screen will display the current value in large numbers. Swipe
   left or right to adjust it from 1 to 96. If other than 24, its light in
   the Per-Split Settings screen will change to the split's accent color.

Pitch/X (column 8)

   Left-right movements (X axis) are always sent using MIDI Pitch Bend
   messages. The settings in this column are:

   1) ON
   If on, Pitch Bend messages are sent when you move your finger left or
   right, permitting smooth performance of vibrato or pitch slides.
   If off, Pitch Bend messages are not sent, so pitch slides or vibratos
   cannot be performed. In this case, sliding left or right will play a
   series of consecutive semitone notes, as if gliding your finger up or
   down a piano keyboard or sliding up or down a guitar neck.

   2) QUANTIZE
   If on, striking a new note anywhere within the note pad will result in
   the same perfectly quantized semitone.
   Then after you strike the note, moving your finger will produce
   unquantize pitch slides or vibratos. This is the equivalent of having
   frets when you strike the note but no frets (permitting vibrato or
   pitch slides) while holding the note after the initial strike.  This
   permits fast play in perfect tune, yet with the ability to perform
   expressive pitch gestures at any time.
   If off, striking different locations within the pad will produce
   different pitches. For example, striking exactly between 2 note pads
   will produce a 1/4 tone that is exactly between the center pitches of
   the 2 note pads.

   3) QUAN HOLD (Quantize Hold)
   If on, pitch will be gradually corrected after a vibrato or pitch slide
   is finished. This permits you to stay in perfect tune while performing
   vibratos and pitch slides. This is especially useful when performing 2-
   or 3-part pitch slides on chords.

   4) QHOLD FAST (Quantize Hold Fast)
   Same as Quantize Hold but with a faster pitch correction after the
   vibrato or pitch slide is finished. This is useful for faster playing
   but may correct very slow vibratos or pitch slides.
   For slower pitch correction, Press Quantize Hold + Qhold Fast together.
   This can be helpful when performing very slow vibratos or pitch slides
   because they will not be mistaken for the end of a pitch movement and
   mistakenly corrected.
   For no Quantize Hold, turn off both Quantize Hold and QHold Fast.

   Hidden setting: Reset On Release
   Press the 5th pad from the top to turn on Reset On Release, which sends
   a Pitch Bend value of zero when a note is released. Normally this
   should be off to prevent pitch change upon release for sounds with long
   releases. However for sounds with fast releases, if you're hearing an
   occasional fast pitch sweep at the beginning of notes, it's because a
   previous note's bend value is remembered by the synth and is quickly
   being zeroed at the start of the new note. Turning this on will correct
   that.

   ‍

Timbre/Y (column 9)

   These settings are related to forward/rearward finger movements, which
   are limited to the 17 mm depth of each note pad.

   1) ON
   If on, MIDI messages are sent in response to Y-axis finger movements.
   If off, they are not.

   Hidden setting: Timbre/Y High/Low Limits
   Normally the value sent for Timbre/Y has a range of 0 to 127. However,
   you can change the low and high limits so that the sent values will be
   scaled between these limits. To change these range limits, hold the On
   pad and the screen will display large characters. Swipe up or down to
   switch between the following two settings, and left or right to edit
   each setting’s value:

   "L 0": the Low Timbre/Y limit, from 0 to 127.
   "H127": the High Timbre/Y limit, from 0 to 127.

   If these settings are changed from their default values of L 0 and
   H127, the On pad in the Per-Split Settings screen will be lit in the
   accent color. Note that if the high limit is lower than the low limit,
   the output range will be inverted.

   2) CC1
   If selected, MIDI Control Change #1 messages will be sent in response
   to Y axis movements.

   3) CC74
   If selected, MIDI Control Change #74 messages will be sent in response
   to Y axis movements. CC74 is the standard MIDI message for sending MPE
   (MIDI Polyphonic Expression) Y-axis data.

   Hidden setting: Y Axis Message Select
   Hold this button to select any CC number from 0 to 127, or Poly
   Pressure or Channel Pressure messages, for sending Y-axis information.
   The current assignment will be displayed in large characters. Slide
   left or right to adjust the CC number (0 to 127), followed by Poly
   Pressure and Channel Pressure. If Poly Pressure is selected, this
   permits polyphonic Y-axis data over a single MIDI channel. If a value
   other than CC74 is selected, the button will light in the split's
   accent color.

   4) RELATIVE

   If off, CC messages reflect absolute finger position within note cell.
   If on, a CC value of 64 is sent at first regardless of the position of
    touch, and subsequent Y-axis movements increase or decrease that
   value.

   Hidden setting: Y-axis Relative Initial value
   Hold to set the starting relative value from its default of 64 to any
   value from 0 to 127. For example, if using Y-axis to add a modulation
   amount, the Y-axis value at first touch will be zero, then moving your
   finger forward will increase the value.

   ‍

Loudness/Z (column 10)

   These settings are related to the sending of MIDI data in response to
   varying pressure on the note pads.

   1) ON
   Enables sending of pressure (Z axis) messages. If off, no pressure
   messages will be sent.

   Hidden settings: Loudness/Z Range Limits and High Resolution Pressure

   Normally the value sent for pressure control has a range of 0 to 127.
   To change these range limits, hold this button and the screen will
   display large characters. Swipe up or down to switch between the
   following 3 settings, and left or right to edit each setting’s value:

   "L 0"
   This is the Low Loudness/Z limit, from 1 to 127. Normally this is set
   to 0.

   "H127"
   This is the High Loudness/Z limit, from 1 to 127. Normally this is set
   to 127.

   Note that if the high limit is lower than the low limit, the output
   range will be inverted. Also, if these settings are changed from their
   default values of L 0 and H127, this button in the Per-Split Settings
   screen will be lit in the split's accent color.

   "7 BT"
   Normally pressure is sent as a 7-bit value from 0 to 127. Swipe right
   to send a 14-bit value as two CC messages. Then you must hold the
   “CC11” note pad and select a CC from 0 to 31. LSB data will be sent on
   the CC number that is 32 higher than the selected CC. For example,
   select CC11 to send MSB (Most Significant 7-bit Byte) on CC11 and LSB
   (Least Significant 7-bit Byte) on CC43.

   2) POLY PRES (Polyphonic Pressure)
   Send pressure data using Poly Pressure messages, also called Polyphonic
   Aftertouch.

   3) CHAN PRES (Channel Pressure)
   Send pressure data using Channel Pressure messages, also called Channel
   Aftertouch. Channel Pressure is the standard MIDI message for sending
   MPE (MIDI Polyphonic Expression) Z-axis (pressure) data.

   4) CC11
   Send pressure data using Control Change 11 messages.

   Hidden setting: CC Select

   To change the CC number to something other than CC11, hold this pad and
   the current value will be displayed in large characters. Swipe left or
   right to change the CC number (0 to 127). If anything other than the
   default 11 is selected, the CC11 pad in the Per-Split Settings screen
   will change to the split's accent color

   Note that either Poly Pressure, Channel Pressure or CC11 may be
   selected. You cannot select more than one.

   ‍

Color (column 11)

   Select red, green, blue, cyan, magenta, yellow, white, orange, lime or
   pink for each of the following:

   1) MAIN
   By default, these are the note pads used to light all scale notes
   except C. The default color for the left split is green and for the
   right split is blue. Press this button to change the Main color,
   rotating through the 10 available colors.
   Note that you can change the scale that is lit in Global Settings >
   Note Lights On/Off.

   2) ACCENT
   By default, these are the note pads used to light only the C notes
   within the scale. The default color for both splits is cyan (light
   blue). Press this button to change the Accent color, rotating through
   the 10 available colors.

   3) PLAYED
   When a note pad is touched (or a Note On message is received over
   MIDI), the note pad will change to the color selected here. Red is
   selected by default. Press this button to rotate though the 10
   available colors or none.

   Hidden setting: Light Animations
   Hold to select one of a number of light animations that appear around
   the played note:

   • Cell (Only the pressed note pad is lit. This is the default setting.)
   • Same (When pressed, all note pads with the same pitch on other rows
   will light.)
   • Crosses
   • Circles
   • Squares
   • Diamonds
   • Stars
   • Sparkles (Roger's favorite, best in white)
   • Curtains
   • Blinds
   • Targets
   • Up
   • Down
   • Left
   • Right
   • Orbits

   4) LOW ROW
   This is the color of the Low Row when turned on. See the description of
   Low Row feature below.)

   ‍

Low Row
(columns 12 and 13)

   The lowest row can be changed to have a variety of alternate functions,
   conveniently operated by the thumb while the fingers are used to play
   notes on the other rows. The options are:

   1) NORMAL
   The Low Row feature is turned off and the lowest row is used for normal
   note play.

   2) RESTRIKE
   Striking the low row will restart all notes held in the upper 7 rows.

   3) STRUM
   Dragging your finger left and right across the Low Row will restart
   notes held directly above the current position on the Low Row,
   effectively strumming the notes above where you touch on the Low Row.

   4) ARPEG (Arpeggiator)
   Pressing the Low Row enables the Arpeggiator (at the selected Rate in
   Global Settings > Arpeggiator) for as long as you hold it.
   Also, sliding your finger left or right from the initial position of
   touch will change the Arpeggiation rate between the 7 possible rates:
   1/8 notes, 1/8 triplets, 1/16 notes, 1/16 half swing, 1/16 triplets,
   1/32 notes and 1/32 triplets.

   5) SUSTAIN
   Pressing the Low Row acts as a momentary sustain pedal to sustain any
   held notes after release.

   6) BEND
   Pressing the Low Row and sliding left or right bends the pitch of all
   held notes. The bend range is set by the Bend Range parameter.

   7) X=CC1
   Pressing and sliding left/right on the Low Row acts like a continuous
   control strip, sending Control Change #1 messages.

   Hidden settings: Low Row CC1 Mode and CC#
   Hold the CC1 button to access two hidden settings. Swipe up or down to
   switch between the following two settings, and left or right to edit
   each setting’s value:

   a) Hold/Fader select:
   The 2 options are:
   a) Hold Mode: Press anywhere on the Low Row to send an initial CC value
   of 0, then slide right (up to a distance of 7 pads) to increase the
   sent value up to 127, then release to send a zero value. This is the
   default mode, intended to use your thumb as a momentary sound change
   while your fingers are playing notes above.
   b) Fader mode; In this mode, the Low Row acts like a long linear Mod
   Wheel control strip. Press the left end of the Low Row to send a CC
   value of 0, the right end to send 127, and anywhere between for a
   proportional value. The sent value remains after releasing the Low Row.

   b) CC#
   The options are 1 (default) though 127, followed by Channel Pressure.
   If other than 1 is selected, the “X=CC1” pad’s light in the Per-Split
   Settings screen will change to the Accent color.

   8) XYZ=16-18
   The low row acts as a three-dimensional control strip, sending CC16
   from X axis movements, CC17 from Y-axis movements and CC18 from Z-axis
   movements.

   Hidden setting: XYZ CC Assign
   To change the CC number used for X, Y or Z and more, hold "XYZ=16-18"
   and the screen will display large characters. Swipe up or down to
   switch between the following four settings, and left or right to edit
   each setting’s value:

   a) X-axis Hold/Fader select: Select “HLD” (Hold mode; press anywhere to
   send an X-axis CC value of 0, slide right up to 7 pads to increase the
   sent value to 127; release to send a zero value) or “FDR” (Fader mode;
   press to send an X-axis CC value of 0-127 proportional to your finger
   position that persists after release).

   b) X CC#: Select CC for X axis (X1 - X127, Channel Pressure)

   c) Y CC#: Select CC for Y axis (Y1 - Y127, Channel Pressure).

   d) Z CC#: Select CC for Z axis (Z1 - Z127, Channel Pressure).

   If any of the above CC numbers are not set to the default values, the
   “XYZ=16-18” pad (in the Per-Split Settings screen) will light in the
   accent color.

   ‍

Special (column 14)

   Engages one (or none) of four special playing modes:

   1) ARPEG (Arpeggiator)
   Turn on to enable the Arpeggiator for this split, using the Arpeggiator
   settings in Global Settings.

   2) CC FADERS
   Changes the selected split into 8 horizontal sliders sending Control
   Change 1 (on frontmost row) through 8 (on rear row) messages over the
   Main channel.  An example of using CC Faders would be to use the left
   split for normal play while using the right split to adjust 8 sound
   parameters in real time.

   Hidden setting: CC Fader CC#
   To change the CC number used for each fader, hold CC FADERS. The screen
   will display a large number and 8 blue lights on the right edge, one of
   which is lit in green to indicate which of the 8 faders is selected.
   Select one of these 8 lights to select a fader, then adjust its CC
   number from 0 to 127 (or select Channel Pressure) by swiping left or
   right. Note that these 8 assignments are unique for the left and right
   splits. If any value is changed from its default of CC1-8, the CC
   FADERS pad in the Per-Split Settings screen will be lit in the split's
   accent color.

   3) STRUM
   If on and Split is also on, you can strum this split to play any notes
   fingered on the other split. For example, select STRUM in the right
   split, turn the SPLIT button on, then drag your finger forward and
   backward over the rows in the right split to "strum" any notes fingered
   in the same row of the left split, similar to strumming a guitar. As
   your strumming finger passes each row, the notes fingered in that same
   row on the other split will sound. Note the following:
   a) When you finger a note in the opposite split, the note will not
   sound until you strum it in the Strum split.
   b) If on the opposite split, you press at least one pad and also strum
   a row that contains no touched pads, the lowest note pitch on the
   untouched row will play, similar to strumming open strings on a guitar.
   c) If multiple notes are fingered in a single row, only the
   highest-pitch note will play.
   d) Hammer-ons and pull-offs can be performed on each row. To perform a
   hammer-on, "strum" a fingered row, then also strike a higher pad on the
   same row; the higher pad will sound. To perform a pull-off, "strum" a
   row with 2 pads fingered on the same row, then release the higher pad;
   the lower pad will sound, its velocity set by the release velocity of
   the released higher pad.
   e) Sensitivity of the Strum split is increased while Strum is on.

   4) Sequencer
   This enables LinnStrument's Step Sequencer. To learn about it, click
   the "Sequencer" tab at the top of this page.

   ‍

Preset

   The Preset button and screen permit you to select sounds in an external
   synthesizer by sending MIDI Program Change messages. Press the Preset
   button and the lights will change to the following:

   The current Preset (program change) number is displayed in large
   digits. The range is 1 to 128, corresponding to MIDI Program Change
   numbers 0 to 127. To change the selected preset, slide your finger left
   or right. Or press the green Increment or red Decrement buttons in the
   upper left corner. As the number changes, MIDI Program Change messages
   will be sent.

   Each of the two splits has a saved Preset number. In the upper right
   corner, press the LEFT or RIGHT buttons to display/edit the Left or
   Right Split's Preset number.

   The Preset button has both momentary and toggle actions. Press it
   briefly (less than 1/2 second) to turn the Preset screen on or off.
   Hold it (for more than 1/2 second) for momentary action. This permits
   faster preset selection during performance: Hold the Preset button,
   select a preset with your other hands, then release the Preset button.

The 6 "All Settings" Memories

   Sometimes it is useful to change all of LinnStrument's settings at
   once, for example to change many MIDI settings at once from those
   needed for one sound generator to those of another.

   At the right side of the Preset screen are 6 blue-lit note pads
   indicating 6 "All Settings" memories. Each of these 6 memories holds a
   snapshot of almost all settings, including Per-Split Settings,
   Octave/Transpose settings and Global Settings, but not the following:

   1) The currently selected preset (1-128, MIDI Program Change) in the
   Preset screen.

   2) The Volume screen's setting.

   3) The current slider value of the 8 CC Faders, as well as the slider
   values of the Low Row's X=CC1 or XYZ=16-18 sliders.

   Why not save these settings? Because the intent of the All Settings
   memories is to instantly change all of LinnStrument’s settings but not
   settings that affect parameter values of external MIDI sound
   generators. These exception settings are also lost when power is turned
   off.

   4) All data and settings of the Step Sequencer. Why? Because these are
   saved separately in the 16 Sequencer Project memories.

   5) The three Custom Light Patterns in Global Settings > Note Lights
   On/Off.

   To save the current LinnStrument settings to one of these 6 memories,
   hold one of the 6 blue-lit note pads for 2 seconds or more, until you
   see it flash red.

   To recall the saved settings, briefly tap one of these 6 buttons. It
   will flash green and will stay lit in light blue to indicate that this
   was the last-loaded memory.

   Here are the default contents of each of these presets:

   Memory 6 (highest): These are the settings for playing drumbeats and
   bass as demonstrated in [61]this video. In our Logic sounds file
   (downloadable from the Recommended Sounds page), select the track "Elec
   Filter Kit" and also enable the Record button ("R") on the "Upright
   Bass" track.

   Memory 5: These are the same settings as after performing a Global
   Settings > Actions column > Reset.

   Memory 4: These are settings for playing MPE sounds. (Same as holding
   ChPerNote in the Per-Split Settings > MIDI Mode column.)

   Memory 3: These settings are useful for some one-channel synths that
   don't respond to Poly Pressure and limit bend range to 12
   semitones: MIDI Mode = One Channel, Main Chan = 1, Bend Range = 12,
   Loudness/Z = Channel Pressure.

   ‍Memory 2: These are the same settings as a new LinnStrument or after a
   Global Settings > Reset. (In Per-Split Settings, MIDI Mode = One
   Channel, Main Chan = 1, Bend Range = 2.)

   ‍Memory 1 (lowest): These are the same settings as a new LinnStrument
   or after a Global Settings > Reset. (In Per-Split Settings, MIDI Mode =
   One Channel, Main Chan = 1, Bend Range = 2.)

   ‍

Volume

   The Volume button and screen permit quickly changing the volume of the
   external synthesizer. This is done by sending MIDI Volume (control
   change #7) messages over the split's Main channel. Pressing the Volume
   button will display the Volume screen:

   To change the volume, slide your finger left or right across the
   playing surface. As the width of the light bar changes, MIDI Control
   Change 7 messages (Volume) will be sent to the external sound generator
   to adjust the volume proportionally.

   If LEFT split is selected in the upper right corner, the left split's
   volume is displayed. If RIGHT split is selected, the right split's
   volume is displayed.

Octave/Transpose

   The Octave/Transpose button and screen permit you to quickly change the
   playing octave or transposition. Press the Octave/Transpose button and
   the lights will change to the following:

   There are 3 horizontal bars in the center, adjacent to the printed text
   "Octave", "Transpose PItch" and "Transpose Lights". Slide your finger
   on one of the bars to adjust its value. The 3 settings are:

   1) OCTAVE
   Press this row to shift the octave up or down. Range is -5 to +5
   octaves.

   2) TRANSPOSE PITCH
   Press a cell in this row to transpose the output pitch. The range is
   +/- 7 semitones. After this screen is exited, the OCTAVE/TRANSPOSE
   button remains green for positive transpositions and red for negative
   transpositions, to remind you that the transposition is active.

   3) TRANSPOSE LIGHTS
   Press a cell in this row to shift the position of the note indicator
   lights (and their pitches) left or right.  The range is +/- 7
   semitones. For example, to move the lowest “C” note into the lower left
   corner cell, select a transposition of -6.

   These settings are different for the left and right keyboard splits,
   selected in the upper right corner:
   If LEFT is selected, the left split's settings are shown, and in the
   left split's Main and Accent colors.
   If RIGHT is selected, the right split's settings are shown, and in the
   right split's Main and Accent colors.
   If you press both LEFT and RIGHT together, you can view and change the
   settings for both splits simultaneously. If the settings are different,
   the indicator bars will show the left and right split's Main colors
   overlapping.

   Also, when Split mode is off, the split selected here (or in the
   Per-Split Settings, Preset or Volume screens) will play from the entire
   touch surface.

   When you turn off the Octave/Transpose button off, all notes assigned
   to middle C (note number 60) will blink briefly, to indicate you the
   selected octave transposition.

Switch 1 & 2

   These 2 switches are handy during performance for turning on/off
   sustain or a variety of other functions. The function of each switch is
   assigned in the GLOBAL SETTINGS.

   By default, SWITCH 1 is assigned to Sustain Pedal and  SWITCH 2 is
   assigned to Arpeggiator On/Off.

   These switches have both momentary and toggle action. If held, they are
   momentary. If tapped briefly, they toggle between on and off.

Split

   Press SPLIT to toggle between normal and split keyboard modes. The
   lights will change to the following:

   The 2 splits will be displayed in their assigned Main and Accent
   colors, set in the Per-Split Settings.

   To move the split point, hold the SPLIT button while dragging your
   finger across the playing surface.

   While SPLIT is on, one of the 2 splits is still selected. The selected
   split is the one that is selected in the Per-Split Settings, Preset,
   Volume and Octave/Transpose screens. Also, the split button (while on)
   is lit in the selected split's Main color. The selected split is used
   in various ways. For example, if a Sustain Pedal is connected, it
   normally only affects the selected split.

   If the SPLIT button off, the full playing surface will use the colors
   and other settings of the selected split. To quickly switch between
   playing the full surface with the left or right split's settings,
   double-tap the SPLIT button.

Global Settings

Overview

   Global Settings are settings that apply to both of LinnStrument's
   keyboard splits. For example, Velocity Sensitivity is a global Setting
   it affects both the left and right splits. Same for selecting whether
   to use the MIDI Jacks or MIDI over USB.

   To view or change the Global Settings, press the Global Settings button
   and the button will light. Now notice that the lights on LinnStrument's
   playing surface have changed:

   Now the lower four rows of lights indicate the status of the Global
   Settings printed directly below each column. For each column, the
   status of the lowest printed setting is indicated by the lowest note
   pad; the status of the second-from-bottom printed setting is indicated
   by the second-from-bottom note pad; etc. For example, if the lowest
   note pad in column 1 is lit, this indicates that "Main" is selected.

   The Global Settings button has both momentary and toggle action:

   If held for more than 1/2 second, it is momentary, staying on only as
   long as you hold it. This is use for fast changes: hold Global
   Settings, change a setting with your other hand, then releasing Global
   Settings.

   Or if tapped briefly (held less than 1/2 second), it toggles between on
   and off with each press. This is better for one-handed use: turn on
   Global Settings, change a setting, then press Global Settings again to
   turn it off.

   Each of the Global Settings is explained below.

   ‍

Note Lights On/Off
(Columns 1 - 4)

   Note Lights On/Off, Columns 1 - 4

   While in Performance mode, the notes of the C major scale are lit in
   the Main color (green by default) and the C within each octave is lit
   in the Accent color (light blue by default). All accidentals (notes not
   in the scale) are not lit.

   Most LinnStrument players never change this light pattern. If you wish
   to change the light patterns, the Note Lights On/Off settings permit
   you to change the note lights in either of two ways:

   1) You can change whether each of the 12 notes in the chromatic scale
   is lit in all octaves, and in one of two colors, or

   2) you can create a fully custom light pattern, individually setting
   each note pad to one of 10 colors or off.

   The Note Lights settings consists of the 1) the View column and 2) in
   columns 2 through 4, the 12 on/off switches to turn on or off the 12
   notes of the chromatic scale.

   The VIEW column has 4 options: Main, Accent, Scale Select, and a fourth
   hidden option called LEFT HAND MODE.

   1) MAIN
   If Main is selected, the 12 settings at right (C through B) determine
   which notes within each octave are lit in the selected Split's Main
   color. By default, the natural notes (C, D, E, F, G, A and B) are
   selected. Press any of these 12 note pads in order to turn it on or
   off.

   2) ACCENT
   If Accent is selected, the 12 settings at right (C through B) determine
   which notes within each octave are lit in the selected Split's Accent
   color. This is usually used to indicate the root note of the scale. For
   this reason, only C is selected by default. If a scale note is selected
   in both Main and Accent settings, the Accent setting overrides the Main
   setting.

   Tip: to change the colors used for the Main and Accent colors, go to
   Per-Split Settings > Color column > Main or Accent. These colors are
   different for the Left and Right splits.

   3) SCALE SELECT
   This feature permits creating, and quickly switching between, multiple
   Note Light patterns. For example, you could instantly switch between
   the default C major scale lights, an alternate light pattern that
   lights the C minor scale, and a custom pattern that resembles the dots
   on a guitar neck.

   If Scale Select is selected in the View column, the 12 settings in
   columns 2-4 (C through B) are used to select one of 12 Note Lights
   memories, each containing a different light pattern. (Important: the
   labels C through B are merely identifiers for the 12 memories, using
   the same 12 printed labels C through B that are printed below the 12
   buttons, and have no relation to the musical keys C though B.) These 12
   memories are divided into two types:

   The first nine memories (C through G#) contain a unique set of both
   Main and Accent light settings as described above. This permits quickly
   changing the lights of one musical scale to another. Though all 9
   memories are editable, the default contents are:

   C: Major (default)
   C#: Natural minor
   D: Harmonic minor
   D#: Major Pentatonic
   E: Minor Pentatonic
   F: Major Blues
   F#: Minor Blues
   G: Diminishe
   G#: Whole Tone

   The last three memories (A, A# and B) are fully custom light patterns
   that you can create by individually setting each of the note pads to
   any of 10 colors or off. This is useful for light patterns that cannot
   be created with the first nine memories, such as guitar neck dots or
   light patterns with more than two colors. Though all three of these
   memories are editable, the default contents are:

   A: Guitar neck dots
   A#: C major scale with a different color for each scale note
   B: Blank

   To display one of these 3 custom light patterns, briefly press Scale
   Select button A, A# or B, then turn off Global Settings. Your selected
   light pattern will appear.

   To Edit one of these 3 custom light patterns, enter Global Settings
   then:
   1) HOLD Scale Select memory A, A# or B. You have now entered the light
   editor screen and the existing contents of the selected memory will
   appear.
   2) To set the color of a pad: repeatedly press the blinking Switch 1
   button until it shows your desired color, rotating through the 10
   available colors. Then press any note pad to change it to that color.
   3) To erase any note pad: hold it.
   4) To erase many note pads: press 2 pads that are 2 corners of a
   rectangle that includes the pads to be erased.
   5) To save your changes and exit the editor: press Global Settings to
   turn it off and return to the normal performance lights.

   ‍Notes about the 3 custom light pattern memories (A, A# and B):
   1) Most LinnStrument players never change the default note lights
   2) If one of these 3 custom light pattern memories is selected, the
   Main and Accent options in the View color are disabled. This is because
   these are not used for the custom light patterns.
   3) The custom light patterns always use the entire playing surface,
   even if Split is on. However if Split is on, playing the note pads will
   still work the same-- divided into left and right splits. The same is
   true for CC Faders mode: the normal CC Faders will not display but the
   function of the pads will work as 8 CC Faders. However, the Low Row
   will display as normal, and the Sequencer will display as normal.
   4) These custom light patterns are not part of the 6 All Settings
   presets in the Presets screen, so they are unaffected by loading or
   saving any of the All Settings presets.

   4) Hidden setting: LEFT HAND MODE
   In column 1, the 4th button from the bottom enables Left Hand Mode.
   If on, the pitch of each row increases in the right-to-left direction..
   If off, the pitch of each row increases in the normal left-to-right
   direction.
   Hold this button to alter its function to one of 3 options:

   1) REV: reverse pitch direction of both splits. (Default)
   2) REVL: reverse pitch direction of left split only, for mirrored
   outward-increasing pitch in Split mode.
   3) REVR: reverse pitch direction of right split only, for mirrored
   inward-increasing pitch in Split mode.

   ‍

   Setting the note lights remotely via MIDI messages

   You can set any of LinnStrument's note pad to any color by sending
   LinnStrument a series of three MIDI Control Change messages:

   1) CC20: Column number of note pad to change (control key column is 0,
   left play column is 1, right play column is 25)

   2) CC21: Row number of note pad to change (bottom row is 0, top is 7)

   3) CC22: Color to change it to (0=as set in Note Lights settings,
   1=red, 2=yellow, 3=green, 4=cyan, 5=blue, 6=magenta, 7=off, 8=white, 9=
   orange, 10=lime and 11=pink).

   First send CC20 and CC21 to select the column and row to be lit, then
   send CC22 to light it.

   There are two addition CC messages that are related only the three
   custom light patterns in Scale Select memories A, A# and B:

   4) CC23:  Save loaded light pattern to flash.
   After sending a new light pattern to LinnStrument, send a CC23 message
   with value 0, 1 or 2 to save it to Scale Select memory A, A# or B,
   respectively.

   5) CC24.: Clear custom light pattern from flash.
   Send a CC24 message with value 0, 1 or 2 to clear Scale Select pattern
   A, A# or B, respectively.

   ‍

   Changing LinnStrument's rows to contain consecutive scale notes instead
   of consecutive semitones

   LinnStrument's rows always consists of consecutive semitones and cannot
   be changed to consist of consecutive scale notes, skipping notes
   outside of the scale. The reason is explained in the first FAQ of the
   FAQ page (at left), General tab. If you wish to change LinnStrument's
   rows to contain consecutive scale notes, skipping accidentals, that FAQ
   contains a link to an Win/Mac application that will do that, though it
   breaks pitch slides.

   ‍

Row Offset
(Columns 5 & 6)

   Row Offset, Column 5 & 6

   This setting determines the pitch offset between rows, like tuning the
   strings on a guitar.  The default setting is +5, so that the leftmost
   pitch of each row is 5 semitones (a musical fourth interval) higher
   that the leftmost pitch of the row below it, just like the 4 lower
   strings of a guitar or a bass guitar. This tuning is called the Fourths
   String Layout and is the default tuning on LinnStrument.

   There are 8 tunings options:

   +3, +4, +5, +6 and +7
   These set the Row Offset to 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 semitones.

   +OCTAVE
   This sets the Row Offset to an octave.

   Hidden setting: ANY ROW OFFSET
   Hold +Octave and the screen will display “12” in large letters. Swipe
   left or right to edit the value from -16 through zero to +16, including
   the leftmost value "-GUIT" (upside down guitar tuning). If set to any
   value other than the default 12, the +OCTAVE pad will light in light
   blue instead of the normal blue.

   GUITAR
   This sets the Row Offset to guitar tuning on the upper 6 rows, plus 2
   extra bass strings below on the bottom, each tuned 5 semitones below
   the row above it.

   Hidden setting: Independent Row Tunings
   Hold the GUITAR button to view the Independent Row Tuning screen.
   Select one of the 8 rows at left, then edit that row’s pitch by swiping
   left or right.

   NO OVERLAP
   This sets each row to start at a pitch one higher than the pitch at the
   end of the previous row.  In this way, there is no pitch overlap
   between rows. This can be useful either for non 12-ECO tunings, or for
   control surface applications where it is desirable for each note pad to
   have a unique note number.

   Tip: To select a Row Offset of zero (all rows start with the same
   pitch), press the lit selection to turn it off.

   ‍

Assign Foot/Panel Switches
(Columns 7, 8 & 9)

   LinnStrument has a 1/4 inch tip/ring/sleeve jack for connection to any
   single or dual foot switch. (See the Hooking It Up page for details.)
   It also has two assignable switches to the left of the playing surface
   called Switch 1 and Switch 2. The Assign Foot/Panel Switch settings are
   used to assign these 4 switches to Sustain Pedal, Arpeggiator On/Off
   and a variety of other useful functions.

   Tip: connect your foot switch before powering on your LinnStrument.
   When powered on, LinnStrument senses whether you are using a Normally
   Open or Normally closed foot switch, which is necessary for correct
   operation.

   Tip: the 2 foot switches have momentary action, while the 2 panel
   switches are both toggle (if pressed for less than 1/2 second) and
   momentary (if held for more than 1/2 second).

   To assign a switch's function:

   1) In the SELECT SW column (column 7), select the switch to be viewed
   or changed. The options are:

   SWITCH1: the panel switch of the same name
   SWITCH2: the panel switch of the same name
   FOOT R: either a single foot switch or the right switch of a dual foot
   switch
   FOOT L: the left switch of a dual foot switch

   Once selected, the current assignment will be displayed in the ASSIGN
   SWITCH columns (8 and 9).
   ‍
   2) To change the selected switch's assignment, press the desired
   assignment in the ASSIGN SWITCH area (columns 8 and 9).

   Tip: Note that the foot switch jack only accepts a foot switch but not
   an expression pedal. To learn how to use an expression pedal with
   LinnStrument, see the Hooking It Up page, section "Using an expression
   pedal".

   ‍

   Here is a list of the available assignment options:

   1) TAP TEMPO
   Tap 1/4 notes to set the tempo for the Arpeggiator and Step Sequencer.

   Hidden settings: Extra switch assignments.
   Hold Tap Tempo to view or change its function to one of the following,
   shown in large text on the playing surface. Select by swiping left or
   right:
     * TAP: Tap Tempo (default).
     * LEG: Legato. While switch is on, notes or chords are sustained
       after release until the next note or chord is played.
     * LAT: Arpeggiator latch. If Arpeggiator is on then while switch is
       on, each pressed & released note will be added to the arpeggiated
       chord.
     * PR+: Preset +. The preset number in the Preset screen is
       incremented.
     * PR-: Preset -. The preset number in the Preset screen is
       decremented.
     * PCH: Pitch slide on/off. Reverses the selected state of Per-Split
       Settings > Pitch/X column > On. This is useful, for example, to
       quickly switch between smooth pitch slides and semitone slides as
       on a guitar. Plus the following 3 assignments are available only
       for the 2 Foot Switches:
     * PLAY: Start or Stop the internal step sequencer. This can also be
       controlled by MIDI NRPN messages.
     * PREV: Previous Sequence, of the 4 sequences in the Step Sequencer.
       This can also be controlled by MIDI NRPN messages.
     * NEXT: Next Sequence, of the 4 sequences in the Step Sequencer. This
       can also be controlled by MIDI NRPN messages.
     * CLK: Start/Stop sending MIDI Clock from LinnStrument.
     * MUTE: Toggle the Mute status of the selected Split's sequence.

   2, 3) OCTAVE DOWN and OCTAVE UP

   OCTAVE DOWN transpose down an octave, and OCTAVE UP transposes up an
   octave.

   4) SUSTAIN
   This is the standard Sustain Pedal assignment, using MIDI Control
   Change #64 messages. To change the control change number sent for this
   assignment, hold the Sustain button to see the assignment is large
   digits, then swipe left or right to change the displayed value. If set
   to any value other than the default 64, the “Sustain” button will light
   in light blue instead of the normal blue.

   5) CC65
   Choose this assignment to send Control Change #65 messages with a value
   of 127 when pressed and 0 when released. To change the control change
   number sent, hold his button to see the assignment is large digits,
   then swipe left or right to change the displayed value. If set to any
   value other than the default 65, the “CC65” pad will light in light
   blue instead of the normal blue.

   6) ARPEG
   Choose this assignment to enable the Arpeggiator while the switch is
   on.

   7) ALT SPLIT
   Choose this assignment to quickly alternate between the left and right
   split playing across the full playing surface.

   ‍

   BOTH SPLITS
   Because the foot switch assignments are global settings, there is a
   single assignment that applies to whichever split is selected, left or
   right. And if the Split button is on (split keyboard play), then the
   foot switch only affects the Selected Split. (The Selected Split is the
   split selected in the Per-Split Settings screen, and is also indicated
   by the color of the Split button.) For example, if Split is on and the
   Left Split is the Selected Split, the sustain pedal will only sustain
   notes on the Left Split.

   However, if BOTH SPLITS is on, then when the Split button is on (split
   keyboard play), the foot switch will affect both splits. For example,
   if Split is on, the sustain pedal will sustain notes on both the Left
   and Right Splits.

   ‍

   HIDDEN SETTING: Virtual Third Foot Switch.
   In addition to the 2 foot switches, a third "virtual" foot switch
   exists, actuated by pressing both left and right foot switches
   together. To assign it, in the Select Switch column, press both FOOT L
   and FOOT R together, then select an assignment in the Assign Switch
   columns. If an assignment is made, then the actions of the Left or
   Right Foot Switches will occur when releasing the foot switch instead
   when pressing it. To remove the assignment for the virtual third foot
   switch (and return the 2 principal foot switches to normal actuation on
   the press), press its selection to deselect it.

   ‍

Velocity Sensitivity
(Column 10)

   There are 3 levels of velocity sensitivity, plus "Fixed" to disable
   velocity sensing:

   1) LOW (for players with a heavy touch)

   2) MEDIUM

   3) HIGH (for players with a light touch)

   Hidden setting: Low and High Velocity Limits
   Hold either Low, Medium or High to access the Low and High Velocity
   limits, shown in large characters. All velocities played will be scaled
   between these two values. Swipe up to view the Low Velocity Limit (L1
   by default) or swipe down for the High Velocity Limit (H127 by
   default). Swipe left of right to adjust the displayed value.

   Note that even with a Low Limit of 1, LinnStrument's velocity curves
   rarely produce a value below 20, even with very light touches. This is
   because LinnStrument's velocity response was tuned based on feedback
   from users who felt this produced the most consistent response. Perhaps
   this is because rubber pads lack the helpful momentum of a piano key's
   travel.

   4) FIXED
   Regardless of how hard or soft you play, a fixed velocity value (96 by
   default) is always sent.

   Hidden setting: FIXED VELOCITY VALUE
   Hold the Fixed Velocity pad to adjust the fixed velocity value that is
   sent by swiping left or right. Default is 96.

   ‍

Pressure Sensitivity
(Column 11)

   There are 3 levels of pressure sensitivity:

   1) LOW (for players with a heavy touch)

   2) MEDIUM (for most players)

   3) HIGH (for players with a light touch)

   Hidden setting: TOUCH SENSOR PRESCALE

   This setting scales the raw output of LinnStrument's touch sensor
   before pressure and velocity processing.

   Tip:
   If you wish more control over LinnStrument's touch sensitivity than is
   provided by the Low, Medium and High options for Pressure Sensitivity
   and Velocity Sensitivity, you can try changing this setting, which will
   affect both velocity and pressure sensitivity. This won't change the
   minimum pressure (about 50 grams) required to trigger a pad, but rather
   will increase or decrease sensitivity once the pad is triggered.

   To view the calibrated value, hold (like a Shift key) Calibration (col
   16, row 4) while pressing this "Medium" button. You will see a number
   in large digits. To change the displayed value, slide your finger left
   or right on the lowest row. Note that the lowest row also acts as a
   pressure meter for any note pad pressed in the upper 7 rows. The
   displayed value can be changed between scaling values of 50 (lowest
   sensitivity, 50% of sensor output) to 200 (extremely high sensitivity,
   200% of sensor output).

   Note: In units before around 2021, this value was calibrated at the
   factory with a weight test. After that, the sensor consistency has been
   so good that at the factory, LinnStrument 200 units are set to 75 and
   LinnStrument 128 units are set to 90, which result in the same apparent
   sensitivity due to the different lengths and therefore resistances of
   the sensor sheets of the 200 and 128.

   WARNING: settings above 100 allow you to get into trouble, possibly
   resulting in decreased velocity accuracy, pads falsely triggering, or
   limiting dynamic range by producing maximum velocity or pressure values
   with only light playing force. Also note that the Prescale value
   affects the sensitivity of the 8 control buttons, so higher values may
   cause problems in the operation of these buttons. For this reason, when
   trying out high Prescale values above 100, increase by only 10
   increments at a time, If you start to notice unwanted problems, reduce
   the Prescale value to a setting that doesn't cause the problems.

   Note that the Prescale setting is not reset by the RESET command in
   Global Settings > Actions column.

   Also, see "[62]How hard should I play LinnStrument?"
   ‍

   AFTERTOUCH
   If on, LinnStrument's sent pressure messages behave like the
   traditional Aftertouch on MIDI keyboards: they only exceed zero once
   you've pressed the note pad approximately 80% of its normal finger
   pressure range. If off, it behaves as normal with pressure values
   exceeding zero with a very light touch.

   ‍

Arpeggiator
(Columns 12, 13 & 14)

   LinnStrument's Arpeggiator works similarly to arpeggiators in MIDI
   keyboards, arpeggiating the individual notes of a held chord in various
   ways. However, this arpeggiator is unique because of LinnStrument's
   expressive control:

   1) Varying pressure while holding a chord will vary the velocity values
   of the arpeggiated notes.

   2) Varying x-axis while holding a chord will vary the pitch of the
   arpeggiated notes.

   3) Varying y-axis while holding a chord will vary the y-axis values of
   the arpeggiated notes.

   Here are two videos that demonstrate this 3D arpeggiator control:
   [63]LinnStrument Arpeggiator, [64]expressive beat box.

   ‍

   To use the Arpeggiator, set these settings as desired, then turn the
   Arpeggiator on in the desired Split (left or right) in the Per-Split
   Settings / Special column. You may also assign the Low Row (in
   Per-Split Settings) or the Foot or Panel Switches (in Global Settings)
   to momentarily turn the Arpeggiator on or off. The settings are:

Column 12: Arpeggiator direction

   There are three options:

   1) UP and DOWN
   UP arpeggiates in the upward direction though the held chord, DOWN
   arpeggiates in a downward direction. Hold UP and DOWN simultaneously to
   select UP & DOWN.

   2) RANDOM
   This setting picks the notes of the held chord randomly for
   arpeggiation.

   3) REPLAY ALL
   Choose this setting to restrike the entire held chord on each repeated
   time interval of the arpeggiator. [65]Here's a video that demonstrates
   this feature.

   ‍

Column 13: Arpeggiator rate

   The options are:

   1/8, 1/16, 1/32 (Arpeggiator rate)
   Select the Arpeggiator rate (1/8, 1/16 or 1/32 notes) relative to the
   tempo.
   Hold 1/8 and 1/16 simultaneously to select SWING for 1/16 note
   half-swing time, a relaxed and natural swing feel with a 58%/42% ratio
   between the odd and even 1/16 notes, halfway between straight and
   triplet swing 1/16 notes.

   TRIPLETS
   If on, the "1/8" button becomes 1/8 Triplets, the "1/16" button becomes
   1/16 Triplets, and the 1/32 button becomes 1/32 triplets.

   ‍

   Column 14

   The settings are:

   TAP TEMPO
   The button's light will flash 1/4 notes at the current tempo. Tap 1/4
   notes on the button to change the tempo for both the Arpeggiator and
   the Step Sequencer. When the button is pressed, the numeric tempo will
   be displayed in the upper half of the screen, which you can change by
   sliding your finger left or right over the displayed number.

   +1 OCTAVE, +2 OCTAVE
   Select one of these to add one or two upper octaves to the arpeggiated
   notes. Deselect both for normal operation.

   Tip: If MIDI Clock is being received, the Arpeggiator and Step
   Sequencer will sync to received tempo and Song Position Pointer. The
   Global Setting button will blink 1/4 notes to indicate that external
   sync is being received. LinnStrument sends MIDI Clock only while the
   Step Sequencer is playing, and only if not also receiving MIDI Clock,
   in order to avoid a MIDI Clock feedback loop in your DAW.

   ‍

Power/MIDI
(Column 15)

   Low Power mode:

   If ON, LinnStrument is placed in a special Low Power mode that permits
   it to be powered over USB from any Lightning-equipped iPad or iPhone.
   While on, the panel lights will be dimmed.

   If OFF, LinnStrument is in normal full-power mode and the panel lights
   are full brightness.

   When connecting an iDevice to LinnStrument for the first time, you can
   force LinnStrument to wake up in Low Power mode by holding the
   Octave/Transpose button while connecting power.

   ‍

   Sleep mode:

   Press to enter Sleep mode. Pressing any note pad turns them back on.
   You can also enter Sleep mode by press Per-Split Settings and Global
   Settings simultaneously.

   Hold this pad to adjust two Sleep parameters. Swipe up/down to select
   the parameter and left/right to edit its value:

   1) Sleep display select:

   “SLP”: all lights off. Note: you can immediately enter Sleep mode at
   any time by pressing Per-Split Settings and Global Settings together.

   “STR”: a looping promotional animation, intended for stores.

   "XMS": a looping Christmas animation with snow falling on Christmas
   trees.

   2) Timer select:

   “NOW”: Pressing Global Settings > Sleep immediately enters Sleep mode,
   or

   “D1-D30”: The Global Settings > Sleep button is a toggle. If on, then
   after the selected number of minutes of Delay after not touching
   LinnStrument, Sleep mode is entered.

   ‍

   USB and MIDI JACKS

   LinnStrument send and receive MIDI over either the round MIDI jacks or
   the USB jack, but not both. To use USB, select USB. To use the round
   MIDI jacks, select MIDI JACKS> By default, USB is selected, which is
   3.7 times faster than the MIDI jacks.

   If USB is selected, your computer should show "LinnStrument MIDI" as
   the name of the MIDI device.

   Tip: if UPDATE OS (explained below) is ON, no MIDI data will be sent
   over USB.

   ‍
   ‍Hidden setting: MIDI Thru

   Hold “MIDI JACKS”, then swipe right to select “THRU”. Now the DIN MIDI
   OUT jack will both send MIDI OUT data and also echo received MIDI IN
   data.
   ‍

   Hidden setting: USB MIDI Data Reduction

   If LinnStrument's high volume of MIDI data sent over USB is overloading
   your computer or sound generator, you can slow down the transmission
   rate of MIDI  messages. Hold the "USB" button to display a screen
   showing the delay time (in microseconds) that is added between sent
   MIDI bytes. Swipe left or right to change the value. Default is 235. As
   a point of reference, a value of 300 slows it down to the speed of the
   MIDI jacks, and a value of 600 slows it down to half the speed of the
   MIDI jacks.

   ‍

Actions
(Column 16)

   CALIBRATE: Your LinnStrument is calibrated for accurate X- and Y-axis
   precision at the factory and never needs recalibration under normal
   use. The green color of the Calibration button indicates that it is
   calibrated and there is no reason to do a new calibration.

   Important to repeat: your LinnStrument never needs recalibration under
   normal use, so please do not do a calibration unless I (Roger) ask you
   to. Sometimes new owners who don't yet understand the operation think
   the first thing they should try is a new calibration, which usually
   results in a less accurate calibration than was done at the factory.

   There are some unusual circumstances that may cause the factory
   calibration to be erased, in which case the Calibration button will be
   red:

   1) loading edited source code without using the trick explained on the
   Source Code page,
   2) loading a beta software version,
   3) reverting to an earlier software version, or
   4) powering LinnStrument from  an inadequate power source. (The Hooking
   It Up page provides hepfjul information about providing adequate
   power.)

   Only if the button is red should you do a new calibration.  The
   calibration is a simple two-minute process and is demonstrated at
   location 14:55 in [66]this video.

   Note: During the calibration procedure, each note pad will change color
   as you drag across it. Sometimes a pad will turn yellow after one pass
   over a row. This is normal and is corrected by dragging over the same
   row in the opposite direction. If not, do the calibration again more
   slowly, taking a full 4 seconds to drag across each row in each
   direction.

   ‍UPDATE OS: Select before receiving an OS update from the LinnStrument
   Firmware Updater.

   Tip: No MIDI data is sent while UPDATE OS is on.

   ‍OS VERS: Select to see the current OS version.

   ‍NOTES OFF: Select to turn off any stuck notes.

   RESET: Press UPDATE OS and NOTES OFF together to reset all settings in
   LinnStrument (except Step Sequencer data and Sensor Calibration) to
   factory status.

   ‍

Hidden Setting: Audience Messages

   While Global Settings is on, pressing note pads in 1 through 16 of the
   top row will cause one of the 16 text messages below to scroll across
   the screen. The text is upside down so that if you're holding your
   LinnStrument as a guitar, the messages will appear correctly for the
   audience to read.

   To edit any of these messages:

   1) Hold the button of the specific message to be edited for 2 seconds.
   This will enter Edit Mode.

   2) Slide your finger up or down within a single column over a letter to
   change it, or slide your finger left or right within a single row to
   scroll other letters of the message onto the screen. The maximum
   message length is 30 characters.

   3) When finished, exit Global Settings.

   Note that your edits remain after powering off and on, as well as after
   an OS Update.

   ‍

   ‍

Step Sequencer

   LinnStrument contains a highly versatile 2-track step sequencer with
   the following features:
     * 2 tracks, one for each of LinnStrument's 2 keyboard splits and
       using its settings
     * Track lengths up to 32 steps, independent for each track
     * Selectable step size (8th, 16th, 32nd, triplets, dotted)
       independent for the 2 tracks
     * Swing timing for 16th notes
     * 4 sequences per track, of which one may play at a time
     * 3 views of the sequence data: Scales (one row per scale note),
       Drums (one row per drum) and Notes (same as LinnStrument Fourths
       String Layout)
     * Forward, reverse and forward/reverse modes, independent for each
       track
     * Independent velocity, duration, pitch bend and Y-axis values for
       each event
     * The displayed portion of the sequence may be looped for fast
       editing
     * Sequence rows may be viewed as scale notes or drums, or in
       LinnStrument's normal Performance view.
     * Editing functions for clearing and copying of track sequences
     * 16 memories, each with all sequences and settings, may be saved to
       computer via our mac/windows app
     * Play both sequencer tracks, or play one while using the other split
       to play live over it

   IFRAME: [67]https://www.youtube.com/embed/bhy_Wx2PWVw

   Note from Roger: The credit for this sequencer goes to LinnStrument's
   software creator Geert Bevin, who not only wrote the sequencer software
   but also did most of the design.

   ‍

   If you have an earlier LinnStrument without the printed Step Sequencer
   settings

   If you an earlier large LinnStrument model without the printed Step
   Sequencer settings in the upper right area of the top panel, there are
   3 ways to update your LinnStrument:
    1. Click [68]here to buy a new metal panel from our online store.
       [69]Here's the installation video.
    2. Here's a [70]graphic file that you can print onto adhesive-backed
       label paper, cut out and to attach to your LinnStrument.
    3. Click [71]here to buy a set of 3 preprinted and precut adhesive
       labels to attach to your LinnStrument panel, available from
       StyleFlip.

   ‍

Sequencer Overview

   There are 2 sequencer tracks, one for each of LinnStrument's two
   keyboard splits, using the Per-Split Settings (MIDI assignments,
   colors, etc.) from the split. Each split can be used for normal play or
   for sequencer play but not both. However, one split can be used for the
   sequencer and the other for live play, thereby permitting simultaneous
   sequencer playback and live play.

To turn on the Sequencer

   To turn on the sequencer for either split, go to Per-Split Settings >
   Special column and turn on the Sequencer button (4th pad from top).
   Then exit Per-Split Settings and the normal Performance mode lights
   will be replaced by the Sequencer screen, shown below.

   Here is the Sequencer screen on the large LinnStrument model:

   Here is the Sequencer screen on LinnStrument 128. If no note is
   selected in the Sequence Display Area at left, the lower-right area
   shows the Page Select buttons...

   ...or if a note is selected in the Sequence Display Area at left, the
   lower-right area shows that note's 4 parameter values:

   The left side of the screen contains the Sequence Display Area and Step
   Select Bar. The right side of the screen contains the Sequencer
   Controls. In the large LinnStrument model, the Sequencer Controls are
   printed above the right side of the playing surface. In LinnStrument
   128, they are printed to the right of the playing surface.

   ‍

The Screen Areas and Controls

The PLAY, SETTINGS and SPLIT buttons

   While the Sequencer screen is showing, the functions of the following
   buttons change:
     * The function of SWITCH 1 changes to Sequencer Settings, explained
       below.
     * The function of SWITCH 2 changes to Sequencer Play/Stop.
     * The function of the SPLIT button changes to toggling between
       displaying the left or right split. If the Sequencer is enabled on
       both splits, this permits fast switching between the left and right
       splits' sequences for displaying and editing.

   ‍

The SEQUENCE DISPLAY AREA

   The upper 7 Rows on the left side of the screen is the Sequence Display
   Area, which shows the actual note events in the sequence. If a note
   event has a velocity of 96 or higher, it is shown in the split's Accent
   color. Otherwise it is shown in the split's Main color.

   There are 3 views of the sequence data-- Scales, Drums and Notes. These
   3 views are explained below in the description of the View Mode
   buttons. The screenshots above show the default Scales view, in which
   each row represents a note of (by default) a C major scale. To change
   the displayed scale, change Global Settings > Note Lights, just as you
   would change the displayed scale in Performance mode.

   The columns represent Time Steps. LinnStrument 128 shows 8 time steps
   and the large LinnStrument model shows 16 time steps. The displayed
   area shows you a window into a sequence of up to 32 steps and 14 rows
   (pitches). The Page Select buttons (explained below) permit viewing
   different pages within the larger sequence.

   ‍

The STEP SELECT Bar

   The lowest row below the Sequence Display Area is the Step Select Bar.
   Various colors indicate different information:

   Red: This is the play head. When the sequence plays, the red light
   moves to indicate the playing step.

   Orange: The step contains at least one note event.

   Yellow: The step contains no note events.

   Lime: The step is after the Sequence End and therefore does not play.

   ‍

The SEQUENCE SELECT & MUTE buttons

   Each of the 2 sequence tracks (left and right) has 4 sequences, one of
   which can play at a time. There are 4 buttons for the left split's 4
   sequences and 4 buttons for the right split's 4 sequence. The active
   sequence (1 through 4) is lit in the split's Accent color, while the
   inactive sequences are lit in the split's Main color. If you change the
   active sequence while playing, the newly-selected sequence will play
   when the current sequence finishes. Or to instantly switch, double-tap
   the new sequence button.

   The MUTE LEFT and MUTE RIGHT buttons are used to instantly mute either
   sequence track.

   ‍

The VIEW MODE buttons

   There are 3 views of the sequencer data:

   1) Scales

   This is the default view and is shown in the screenshots above. In this
   view, each of the 7 rows represents a note within a musical scale. In
   the screenshots above, the rows represent the 8 notes of the C major
   scale. To change the displayed scale, change Global Settings > Note
   Lights, just as you would change the displayed scale in Performance
   mode.

   2) Drums

   Drums view is identical to Scales view except that instead of the rows
   representing scale notes, they represent different drums, or rather the
   MIDI note numbers for specific drums. By default, the 7 rows are
   assigned to the following note numbers, which are the General MIDI
   standard for the following drum types:

   Skaker (note nmber 69, highest row)

   Tamborine (note number 54)

   Hihat Open (note number 46)

   Hihat Closed (note number 42)

   Snare rim (note number 37)

   Snare (note number 38)

   Bass drum (note number 36)

   However, these assignments may be changed in the Sequencer Settings
   (Switch 1).

   3) Notes

   This view is the same as in LinnStrument's Performance mode: rows of
   consecutive semitones with scale notes lit. In this view, only the note
   events that exist at the selected step (in the Step Select Bar) are
   displayed, and appear in red.

The STEP SIZE buttons

   These buttons determine the time given to each sequence step, relative
   to the current tempo. (The Sequencer uses the same tempo as the
   Arpeggiator, set in Global Settings > Arpeggiator columns.) The options
   are:

   1/4, 1/8 or 1/16
   For example, press 1/16 and all steps will play for one 1/16 note each.
   To select 1/4, press 1/8 and 1/16 together.

   DOTTED, TRIPLET and SWING
   Select DOTTED to change the selected 1/4, 1/8 or 1/16 Step Size into
   dotted 1/4s, dotted 1/8s or dotted 1/16s.
   Select TRIPLET to change the selected 1/4, 1/8 or 1/16 Step Size into
   1/4 triplets, 1/8 triplets or 1/16 triplets.
   Select SWING to force the Step Size to 1/16, played at a loose
   half-swing in which for each 1/8 note, the first 1/16 note receives 58%
   and the second 1/16 note receives 42% exactly half-way between straight
   1/16s and triplets swing 1/16s.
   For normal 1/4, 1/8 or 1/16 notes, do not select any of these 3
   buttons.

The PAGE SELECT buttons

   Each sequence has 32 steps, yet only 16 columns can be viewed on the
   large LinnStrument model and only 8 can be viewed on LinnStrument 128.
   Also, in Scales or Drums view, the sequence contains 14 scale notes or
   drums, yet only 7 rows can be viewed at a time. So the Sequence Display
   Area is a window into the larger sequence. The Page Select buttons
   allow you to reposition that window to view different parts of the
   sequence.

   On the large LinnStrument model, there are 4 Page Select buttons,
   permitting viewing of 1) the first or last 16 steps, and 2) the lower
   or upper 7 rows.

   On LinnStrument 128, there are 8 Page Select buttons, permitting
   viewing of 1) steps 1-8, 9-16, 17-2 or 24-32, and 2) the lower or upper
   7 rows.

   If either LinnStrument model is set to Notes View, there are no upper
   rows to view so there are no upper Page Select buttons. In this case,
   the Page Select buttons are used only to select ranges of steps, with
   buttons for LinnStrument and 4 for LinnStrument 128.

The CLEAR button

   To clear (erase) any sequences, hold CLEAR while pressing one of the 4
   left or 4 right Sequence Select buttons.
   To clear (erase ) all notes from a step, hold CLEAR while pressing a
   step button in the Step Select Bar.

The COPY button

   To copy one sequence over another, hold COPY while pressing the source,
   then destination sequence, from among the 4 left and 4 right sequences.

   To copy a step's contents to another step, hold COPY while pressing the
   source step, then destination step in the Step Select Bar.

The LOOP SCREEN button

   Turn on to loop only the steps that are visible on the screen. This is
   useful for quick editing of a portion of a longer sequence.

The REVERSE button

   Turn on to reverse the play direction. Hold to alternate play between
   forward and reverse.

   ‍

How Do I...

Insert a note

   At the desired location in the Sequence Display Area, press an empty
   note location. The note will be entered at the velocity played.

Delete a note

   To delete a note, briefly tap it in the upper 7 rows.

Change the sequence length

   The sequence can be any length up to 32 steps. By default, the sequence
   length is 8 steps on LinnStrument 128 and 16 steps on the large
   LinnStrument model, the same as the number of displayed steps. To
   change the sequence length, hold SETTINGS (Switch 1) while also
   pressing the desired ending step in the Step Select Bar.  To select a
   length longer than the number of displayed steps, you must use the Page
   Select buttons to view higher steps within the sequence.

Select a note for editing

   Hold the note for more than 1/2 second and it will blink, indicating
   that it is selected for editing.

   Another way to select a note is to press its step in the Step Select
   Bar. If more than one note exists at the selected step, press the step
   button in the Step Select Bar again to rotate through the notes at that
   step or no selection.

   Once selected, the note's Velocity, Duration, Pitch Bend and Y-axis
   values will appear in the lower right area of the playing surface,
   explained below.

Deselect a note

   If you wish to deselect the selected note (for example to use the Page
   Select buttons on LinnStrument 128), press anywhere on the unlit area
   in the middle of the screen. On LinnStrument, there is a single unlit
   column. On LinnStrument 128, there are 2 unlit columns.

Instantly reposition the Play Head while playing

   While playing, hold Switch 2 (Sequencer Play) while pressing a step in
   the Step Select Bar. Play will instantly jump to the new position.

Play only the viewed sequence track

   If both sequence tracks are in use but you'd like to play only the
   viewed sequence track, hold SEQUENCER SETTINGS (Switch 2) while
   pressing SEQUENCE PLAY (Switch 2).

How to change Tempo

   The Sequencer uses the Arpeggiator's tempo. It can be changed in Global
   Settings > Arpeggitor columns > Tap Tempo.

Sync to external devices

   Simply send LinnStrument MIDI clock with Song Position Pointer and it
   will play in perfect sync.

Transpose a sequence

   To transpose a sequence's playback, use the Octave/Transpose
   button/screen. However, if the View Mode is set to DRUMS, the sequence
   playback will not be affected, because transposing note numbers that
   play specific drums would otherwise cause the sequence to play
   different drums.

   ‍

Sequencer Settings

   Press SETTINGS (Switch 1) to adjust a variety of settings related to
   the sequencer. The screen below will appear. Press one of the 4 buttons
   at the bottom of the screen to select a setting.

Setting 1: Project Save/Load

   LinnStrument has 16 "Projects", each of which holds all sequence data
   and settings for both splits. The 4x4 matrix in this screen represents
   these 16 projects, with "1" starting at the bottom left, like this:

   13 14 15 16
   09 10 11 12
   05 06 07 08
   01 02 03 04

   (Ignore the zero before each number 1 though 16.)

   Hold a Project button for more than 1/2 second to save all current
   sequencer data over the contents of the Project button.

   Briefly press a button to replace all current sequencer data with the
   contents of the button's project.

   The last saved or loaded project button will change to light blue to
   remind you which one you last saved to or loaded from.

   The LinnStrument Updater app can be used to save any of the 16 projects
   as a file to your computer.

Settings 2 and 3: Drums View Note Numbers

   If View is set to "Drums" in the Sequencer screen, each of the 7 rows
   has an assigned note number corresponding to a specific drum. The
   default note numbers are given in the description of the Drums View
   above. This Settings screen permits you to change the note number for
   each of the 14 rows. There are 2 setting screens: 1) the note numbers
   for rows 1-7 and 2) the note numbers for rows 8-14.

Setting 4: Step Select Bar Colors

   This setting permits you to change the colors used in the sequencer
   screen's Step Select Bar.

   ‍

     * [72]About us
     * [73]Contact US
     * [74]Newsletter

   © 2020 ROGER LINN DESIGN

References

   Visible links:
   1. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/linnstrument
   2. https://www.rogerlinndesignstore.com/Default.asp
   3. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/where-to-buy-dealers
   4. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-register-your-linnstrument
   5. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/where-to-buy-discounts
   6. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/buying-used
   7. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument
   8. https://www.sequential.com/product/tempest/?referer=rogerlinndesign.com
   9. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-adrenalinn
  10. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-mpc60-version-3-10
  11. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-legacy-products
  12. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-roger-linn-design
  13. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-museum
  14. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/roger-faq
  15. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-press
  16. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-grammy
  17. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/more/stanford-workshop
  18. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-contact
  19. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument
  20. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-register-your-linnstrument
  21. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-getting-started
  22. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-support-panel-settings
  23. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-hooking-it-up
  24. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-faqs
  25. https://www.kvraudio.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=263
  26. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-recommended-sounds
  27. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-bitwig-8-track
  28. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/ls-surge
  29. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-logic
  30. https://www.youtube.com/user/rogerlinndesign/playlists?disable_polymer=1
  31. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-submit-video
  32. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-chord-and-scale-shapes
  33. http://www.jeffmoen.com/
  34. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-creating-sounds
  35. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-what-is-mpe
  36. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-pressure
  37. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-linnstrument-tips-tricks
  38. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-linnstruments-smart-midi
  39. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-samples-vs-synthesis
  40. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-update-software
  41. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-repair-old
  42. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/newsletters-home
  43. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-stolen
  44. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/zoom-call
  45. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-geoswam
  46. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/artists
  47. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support---ls-visual-impaired
  48. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/buying-used
  49. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-source-code
  50. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-midi-implementation
  51. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-developers-how-to-add-mpe
  52. https://github.com/rogerlinndesign/linnstrument-firmware/blob/master/user_firmware_mode.txt
  53. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-design-ideas
  54. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-fourths-layout
  55. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/why-expression
  56. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/how-linnstruments-sensor-works
  57. https://youtu.be/-hfzA1M8h48?si=xpzigHzujP6rpAGd
  58. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/early-designs
  59. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-engineering-files
  60. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-linnstruments-smart-midi
  61. https://youtu.be/HHWrSs8o1V4
  62. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-pressure
  63. https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=9&v=BaG6aQKSpeg
  64. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHWrSs8o1V4
  65. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fJ-mBG5FMUc
  66. https://youtu.be/t85BU-4M_2k?si=A5ncvnQjzn2kckua&t=895
  67. https://www.youtube.com/embed/bhy_Wx2PWVw
  68. https://www.rogerlinndesignstore.com/LS-TOPPANEL-p/ls200-toppanel.htm
  69. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lN8bbS6arWU&feature=youtu.be
  70. https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/5ad24a891dee8925107423d0/5e625a46452770dab2470abd_linnstrument-sequencer-you-print-label.pdf
  71. https://www.styleflip.com/linnstrument-skins-custom-sticker-covers
  72. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-roger-linn-design
  73. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-contact
  74. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/newsletters-home

   Hidden links:
  76. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/
  77. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-support-panel-settings
  78. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/
  79. https://www.facebook.com/RogerLinnDesign
  80. https://www.youtube.com/user/rogerlinndesign
  81. https://twitter.com/roger_linn
  82. https://www.instagram.com/roger.linn/
