   [1]Linnstrument
   Where to buy
   [2]ONLINE SHOP[3]DEALERS[4]REGISTRATION[5]DISCOUNTS [6]Buying USED
   Support
   [7]LINNSTRUMENT[8]TEMPEST[9]ADRENALINN[10]MPC60
   V3.10[11]LEGACY PRODUCTS
   OTHER
   [12]ABOUT RLD[13]Museum[14]Roger FAQs[15]Press[16]Grammy
   Award[17]Stanford Workshop[18]Contact

   LinnStrument Support
   [19]LinnStrument Support Home
   Manual
   [20]Register Dealer/Used Purchase
   [21]Getting Started
   [22]Panel Settings
   [23]Hooking it Up
   [24]FAQs
   [25]LinnStrument Forum on KVR
   [26]Recommended Sounds
   [27]Free Bitwig 8-Track
   [28]Free Surge XT Synth
   [29]Free Sounds for Logic/MainStage
   [30]Videos
   [31]Submit Video for next Compilation
   [32]Learning to play
   [33]Learn the LinnStrument video series
   [34]Creating Sounds
   [35]What is MPE?
   [36]How hard should I play?
   [37]Tips & Tricks
   [38]Smart MIDI
   [39]Samples vs. Synthesis
   [40]Updating Software
   [41]Installing Replacement Parts
   [42]Email Newsletters
   [43]Stolen Units
   [44]Monthly Zoom call with Roger
   [45]20% off on GeoSWAM instruments
   [46]Artist Interviews
   [47]For visually impaired users
   [48]Buying Used / Hardware Updates
   Developers
   [49]Source Code
   [50]MIDI Implementation
   [51]How to add MPE
   [52]User Firmware Mode
   About the Design
   [53]Design Goals & Choices
   [54]Piano vs. String layout
   [55]Why touch expression?
   [56]How the sensor works
   [57]"Making of LinnStrument" video
   [58]Early Design concepts
   [59]Engineering Files

Frequently Asked Questions

   Pre-salesGeneralProblems

Q: What are the limitations of LinnStrument's sensor technology?

   A:
    1. Velocity accuracy and consistency, while very good on LinnStrument,
       is inherently less accurate than a high-quality MIDI piano keyboard
       for two reasons: First, rubber pads lack the physical momentum of a
       moving key, which helps your finger to move at a consistent rate.
       Second, pads sense velocity by tracking the pad's pressure envelope
       until it starts to fall from its peak, which is inherently less
       accurate than measuring the time for a piano key to move between
       two electrical contacts. Also, some people may find LinnStrument's
       velocity accuracy to be less accurate than a high-quality drum pad
       controller. This is because sensing three signals (X, Y and Z) for
       200 or 128 pads at high speed with low latency has inherent
       engineering limitations that don't exist for sensing only 16 to 64
       drum pads. Generally, LinnStrument players find that giving up some
       velocity accuracy is worth the benefits of LinnStrument's
       polyphonic sensing of 3 continuous dimensions for each of 200 or
       128 note pads on a large playing surface. You can get a general
       idea of the velocity accuracy by watching some of the many
       LinnStrument owner videos, especially those of two-handed
       piano-style play.
    2. If 3 note pads are pressed that are 3 corners of a rectangle,
       presses to a note pad that is the 4th corner of that rectangle will
       be ignored. This is a fundamental electrical limitation of
       LinnStrument's sensing method and cannot be changed. Without this
       limitation, a different and far more expensive sensing method would
       be required for LinnStrument's large playing surface that would
       have less velocity accuracy, higher latency, and would interpret
       two close touches as one. This is why no other polyphonic 3D touch
       surface exists with a large playing surface, low latency and the
       ability to recognize two close touches as distinct. Fortunately,
       LinnStrument's Fourths String Note layout provides multiple
       instances of each pitch, so if you encounter this limitation with a
       particular chord fingering, there will be alternate fingerings for
       the same chord.
    3. No more than 3 note pads are permitted in the same vertical column.
       Pressing a 4th note pad in the same column will be ignored. This is
       related to an engineering limitation of LinnStrument's sensing
       method. Fortunately, LinnStrument's Fourths String Note layout
       provides multiple instances of each pitch, so if you encounter this
       limitation with a particular chord fingering, there will be
       alternate fingerings for the same chord.
    4. Y-axis (forward-backward) movement is limited to the 17 mm vertical
       dimension of each note pad. Sliding your finger vertically across
       rows will result in a new note when the touch enters the adjacent
       row's note pad. This is because LinnStrument's touch sensor has an
       internal spacer between rows that prevents tracking touches
       vertically from one row to another.
    5. Maximum simultaneous touches: about 50, or 15 in MPE mode, due to
       the maximum 15 per-note MIDI channels.
    6. Minimum distance between any 2 touches: 10 mm, but the 2 touches
       must be in 2 adjacent note pads.

Q: What is the warranty?

   A:
   * 3 years if you buy direct from my online store.
   * 3 years if you buy from dealer and register your purchase (from the
   link at top of this page) within 60 days.
   * 2 years if you buy from dealer and don’t register your purchase
   within 60 days.

Q: Where can I try out a LinnStrument?

   A: The only place to buy a LinnStrument in the US is direct from the
   Roger Linn Design store, which also ships worldwide with free shipping
   to most countries. Outside the US, you can see our current dealer list
   by clicking the Store/Dealers menu -> Dealer List.

   The best way to try out a LinnStrument is to buy it and if you don't
   like it, return it within the refund period, which is 60 days from my
   online store or 30 days from most stores. (See next FAQ for details.)

   Or, you can email me (Roger) at sales@rogerlinndesign.com and there's a
   good chance of a LinnStrument owner in your area who would be willing
   to show you theirs.

   If your local dealer doesn't carry LinnStrument, please tell them that
   I would welcome an order from them.

Q: What's your return policy?

   A: We understand that LinnStrument isn't in stores everywhere, so our
   60-day money-back guarantee (if purchased direct from our online store)
   is our way of letting you try it out at no risk. If you bought direct
   from our online store, have received the shipment, and after evaluating
   it you find that LinnStrument doesn't meet your needs, simply contact
   me (Roger) at sales@rogerlinndesign.com for the correct shipping
   address and return instructions, and I'll refund the entire product
   cost within two days of receiving it. Don't send to the address that it
   was shipped from or it will likely be returned to you.

   Or if you bought from one of our dealers, most dealers have a 30-day
   return policy. Please contact your dealer for return instructions.

Q: How difficult is it to learn to play?

   A: If you play a stringed instrument, it's surprisingly easy to
   transfer your skills to LinnStrument's stringed-instrument note layout,
   which is like an 8-stringed bass guitar with each row consisting of
   consecutive semitones, and with the rows tuned to fourths intervals.
   This isomorphic layout is both easier to learn and play than a piano
   keyboard note arrangement, and is much better suited to expressive
   performance. [60]Here's why. And [61]here's a page showing the location
   of popular chords and scales.

Q: Can you help me decide between the larger LinnStrument model and the
smaller LinnStrument 128 model?

   A: In the default fourths tuning and default transposition,
   LinnStrument 128 has a pitch range of 51 semitones (F#0 to G#4), a
   little over 4 octaves; and the large LinnStrument model has a pitch
   range of 60 semitones (F#0 to F5) or 5 octaves. See [62]here for a
   picture of the pitch locations on both models.

   The larger model gives you more flexibility for two-handed and
   split-keyboard play, as well as more space to continue chords or single
   lines up into higher registers without switching to other rows. A good
   analogy is the difference between playing a 24-fret and 15-fret guitar.
   (The large LinnStrument has 25 columns, like 24 frets plus open string.
   The LinnStrument 128 has 16 columns, like 15 frets plus open string.)
   On a 15-fret guitar, you'd probably find it more difficult to perform
   solos because you'd often need to switch to other strings.

   Also, if you're interested in using the Step Sequencer, the sequence
   view area on LinnStrument 128 shows only 8 steps (columns) of the
   sequence at a time, compared to 16 steps at a time on the large model.
   And the printed Sequencer parameters are easier to read and use on the
   large model because they are printed directly above the columns,
   whereas on the 128 they are printed to the right of the rows.

   Also, LinnStrument 128 has no power supply input, which very few people
   ever use on the large model because nearly everyone uses USB power. If
   using the round MIDI jacks, you can power LinnStrument from a USB power
   adapter. And if connecting to an iPad and you don't want to power
   LinnStrument from the iPad, you can use a USB Y-adapter cable to
   provide USB power from a USB power adapter while connecting to the iPad
   for data.

   Finally, LinnStrument 128 is more portable and easy to fit into a
   backpack. And the larger model's folding, padded zippered soft carrying
   case is thicker than the small model's minimal neoprene sleeve case,
   which is like a laptop sleeve case. And although the total length of
   the large LinnStrument in its soft case is two inches more than the
   normal airline carry-on length limit, I (Roger) have traveled many
   times with my large LinnStrument and have never been prevented from
   carrying it on the plane in economy.

   Lastly, it may be helpful to know that the large LinnStrument model is
   twice as popular as the LinnStrument 128, suggesting that people
   generally prefer the larger playing surface.

Q: How does LinnStrument compare to Roli Seaboard?

   A: Seaboard is a fine and well-designed instrument. For many, it is a
   choice between the familiarity of the traditional piano pitch layout,
   and the advantages for pitch gestures of evenly-spaced semitones as
   described on the LinnStrument Product page. For an unbiased answer, we
   suggest you search the web for "LinnStrument vs. Seaboard". You will
   find a number of helpful postings from owners of both instruments.

Q: How does LinnStrument compare to the 2023 Ableton Push?

   The new [63]2023 Push adds MPE 3D-expressive touch control to its 8 by
   8 matrix of play pads, and is an excellent design. This is great news
   for LinnStrument because it will introduce a large group of musicians
   to expressive touch control who wouldn’t otherwise have considered it.

   The 2023 Push and LinnStrument cater to different types of musicians.
   The new Push has 64 pads of larger size, arranged in an 8 by 8 matrix,
   so it’s more focused on Live’s primary market of clip launchers,
   beatmakers, sequencing/looping, and simple musical play. By comparison,
   LinnStrument is more focused on being a quality expressive musical
   instrument with a large playing surface of either 128 or 200 pads.

   LinnStrument's larger number of pads means that you won’t frequently
   bump into the edges of the playing surface during chord or solo play.
   And the smaller pads— the same spacing as human fingers— permit
   fingering of more complex chords in one hand, as well as easier and
   faster play of solo lines.

   One analogy is a comparison to guitar. In both the new Push and
   LinnStrument, the primary tuning is rows of chromatics tuned in
   fourths, like a stringed instrument. So an 8x8 matrix is like 8 strings
   of 7 frets each plus open string. Just as guitarists would find it
   limiting to play a guitar with only 7 frets, many players of the new
   Push will find more complex musical parts difficult to play on an 8 x 8
   pad matrix. And for those wishing to split the keyboard into two zones
   with two different sounds, 8 columns is impractically small.

   This difference is illustrated in the videos of each product. The new
   Push’s videos focus on playing simple solo lines and Push’s traditional
   strength of arranging clips, whereas LinnStrument’s videos focus on
   skilled play of chords and solo lines, including two-handed play.

   For some people considering the new Push primarily for skilled chord
   and solo play, they may consider LinnStrument 128’s 128 pads at $1099
   to be more attractive than the 64 pads of the controller version of
   Push at $999.

   I (Roger) thank Ableton for legitimatizing the entire product category
   of expressive MPE controllers, thereby raising the tide for all boats
   in the category.

Q: I live outside of the U.S. If I place an order on your online store, will
I be required to play my country's VAT and duty?

   A: Yes. When you order from our online store, you are charged only the
   product cost and shipping cost. Before delivering the package, the
   shipper will collect your country's VAT and duty. To learn your
   country's VAT and duty, click [64]here and enter "9207.10.00" for the
   "HS Code". Also, if LinnStrument does not meet your expectations and
   you choose to return it within 60 days for a refund, you will be
   responsible for applying to your country's tax service for VAT/duty
   reimbursement, as well as the shipping cost to return it to the U.S.
   For these reasons, it is usually better to buy from a dealer in your
   country, or if you're in the EU's Schengen Zone to buy from Thomann.

Q: How difficult is it to get it up and running?

   A: Just connect to your computer via USB and play any software
   instrument on your computer. LinnStrument sends standard MIDI messages,
   just like with any other MIDI controller keyboard. You can learn more
   on our Getting Started page, accessed from the LinnStrument Support
   page.

Q: If I have a problem with my LinnStrument that requires repair, how do you
handle it?

   A: Contact me (Roger) at support@rogerlinndesign.com so I can
   understand what's wrong. If it does need repair, every problem in
   LinnStrument can be solved by sending you a part that you can replace
   yourself in 10 to 30 minutes by following a video, using only a
   screwdriver. Please don't send it back to us or to the dealer unless I
   ask you to because the dealer usually doesn't know what to do and will
   likely take a long time to fix it and return it to you. If you don't
   speak English, then it's still best to contact me because I can contact
   the dealer for help in translating. Most importantly, don't worry-- I
   want to help you.

Q: Why isn't a power supply included with LinnStrument (large model)?
Q: Why is there a power supply input on LinnStrument but not on LinnStrument
128?

   A: A power supply is not included with LinnStrument because
   LinnStrument is nearly always USB bus-powered, even from any Lightning
   iPad or iPhone, and when using the MIDI jacks any USB power adaptor can
   be used. For those rare cases where a power supply might be preferred,
   [65]the power supply item on our online store contains a link to buy a
   compatible supply. Or any power supply can be used that has a standard
   5.5mm outside diameter / 2.1mm inside diameter round connector, 7.5 to
   15 volts DC center-positive or center-negative, or AC 9 to 15 volts,
   with least 300 milliamperes of supply current. In fact, so few people
   use LinnStrument's power input that we didn't include it on
   LinnStrument 128.

Q: Why isn't a printed manual included with LinnStrument?

   A: LinnStrument's manual and all other support documentation are online
   and no printed manual is included. Why?
   1) Printed manuals can't have video, animations or hypertext, and
   printed FAQs should more accurately be called "Questions that were
   frequently asked when this manual was published a few years ago".
   2) Printed manuals always go out of date because they represent a
   single point in time. For this reason, printed manuals are often a
   cause of support inquiries. Instead, LinnStrument's online manual is
   always up to date, reflecting the correct information for the latest
   software update.
   3) LinnStrument owners generally prefer the online manual because they
   are accustomed to reading on tablets, phones or computers.
   4) If you want to print any part of LinnStrument's online manual,
   simply print it from your browser.

Q: Does LinnStrument require a software editor or software drivers?

   A: No and no. Computer driver software is not needed because
   LinnStrument's MIDI-over-USB is fully USB Class Complaint, using the
   standard Mac, Windows and Linux drivers. A computer editing application
   is not needed because all settings can be accessed on the front panel,
   and are printed on the panel for ease-of-use. However, a license for
   Bitwig Studio 8-Track music software is included with each
   LinnStrument.

Q: Why is it so expensive?

   A: It's actually not expensive for what it does. Often people think
   that because it resembles a simple button-matrix controller like a clip
   launcher or drum pad controller, it should cost the same as one. But
   it's far more than a button matrix controller, sensing three continuous
   dimensions of very light touch, plus velocity and release velocity, all
   polyphonically and with low latency, on a large playing surface, with a
   translucent sensing technology that permits scale lighting. That is a
   very difficult engineering challenge that makes it expensive to
   manufacture, but which is necessary in order to make LinnStrument the
   highly sensitive and fine musical instrument that it is.

   It's possible that LinnStrument will be less expensive in years to come
   as its popularity increases and more people buy it. This is because if
   more people buy something, the cost for each one decreases. Or another
   manufacturer might license LinnStrument's patented sensing technology
   and produce a lower-cost but similar instrument. So you might be able
   to save money by waiting a few years. It depends on how important
   LinnStrument's expressive touch control is to your music-making
   process, or if playing music with on/off switches, knobs and sliders is
   good enough for you.

Q: Roger, you're 69 (as of 2025). What if you retire? Will I be able to get
parts? Will LinnStrument become unavailable?

   A: That's a legitimate question. First, I'm not the type of person to
   retire because I enjoy what I do too much, and I have enough time to
   enjoy other life pursuits. Second, I keep my expenses low and don't
   take investment, so there's no chance of an investor pulling his
   funding or demanding compromises, as happens sometimes to funded
   companies.

   If I do semi-retire someday, I'd make sure that some company continues
   to make LinnStruments and LinnStrument replacement parts. If needed,
   I'll open-source the hardware, just as I open-sourced the software. The
   most important thing to me is that people are able to continue to get
   LinnStruments and replacement parts forever.

   ‍

Q: LinnStrument's rows always contain consecutive semitones (chromatic
scales). Is it possible to set LinnStrument so that the rows contain
consecutive notes of a specific scale, for example only major scale notes
while skipping over the accidentals?

   A: It is fundamental to LinnStrument’s design that each of the eight
   rows always contain only chromatic scales. While it is true that some
   controllers (like our Tempest drum machine) permit you to set
   consecutive pads to play only scale notes (for example, only major
   scale notes, skipping accidentals), this is really only useful for
   controllers with few pads like drum pad controllers or Ableton Push.
   However, LinnStrument has 200 or 128 note pads so it is not necessary
   to delete any notes of the chromatic scale. The problem with removing
   the notes outside of the scale is that you can't play them, so you are
   limited to very simple music. There are other problems with
   non-chromatic scales:

   1) you must always change the scales to play in different musical modes
   so you never get a chance to develop any playing skills because the
   notes are always moving.

   2) Pitch slides will no longer be consistent, with larger jumps between
   note pads that are a whole tone apart than between those that are a
   semitone apart.

   3) Vibratos on a pad with a semitone interval on one side and a whole
   tone interval on the other will be asymmetrical, bending twice as much
   on the whole tone side than on the semitone side.

   Instead of preventing you from playing accidentals, LinnStrument
   borrows an idea similar to the piano keyboard's black and white keys:
   it provides access to all the notes but highlights the naturals. So if
   you don't want to play the accidentals (sharps and flats), simply play
   the lit notes and don't play the unlit notes. By default, LinnStrument
   lights the natural notes (C, D, E, F, G, A and B, with all “C” notes in
   light blue and the rest in green, but you can change it to highlight
   any scale and in any of 10 colors (red, green, blue, cyan, magenta,
   yellow, white, orange, lime or pink). This is done in Global Settings /
   Note Lights.

   If you feel it is important to remove all accidentals and have
   LinnStrument's rows consist of only consecutive scale notes,
   LinnStrumentalist Rick Burnett has created a [66]Mac application and
   Max/MSP patch that does that, though pitch slides will no longer work
   correctly.

Q: Can LinnStrument's consecutive note pads be set to play non-standard
tunings / non-equal temperament tunings / microtonal tunings / xx-TET
tunings?

   A: LinnStrument is a MIDI controller, sending standard MIDI messages.
   MIDI defines note numbers as consecutive semitones. To achieve any
   non-standard scales, you would simply define the frequency of each MIDI
   note number however you wish in your external sound generator.

   As an alternative, you can use MIDI scale translation software such as
   [67]CSE or [68]Universal Tuning Editor between LinnStrument and your
   sound generator.

   Also, LinnStrument owner Ben Fuhrman has created a [69]free patch for
   Cycling 74's Max that sets each of LinnStrument's rows to play an
   octave of any EDO from 2 to 24, with each row an octave higher than the
   one below it. If you don't have Max, Max patches can run on the free
   demo version of Max.

   Here are a few other helpful things:
    1. LinnStrument’s Row Offset setting (the note number interval between
       rows) can be set to any value between -16 and 16 (by holding the
       Row Offset > Octave pad). It also permits each row to be
       independently tuned to any pitch you like. It also has an option
       called No Overlap. If No Overlap is selected, the starting note
       number for each row is one higher than the ending note number of
       the next lower row. For example, if both Row Offset = No Overlap
       and Split = on, you can set one split’s width to 24 columns,
       thereby giving you EDO 24 with each row being one octave higher
       than the one below it.
       ‍
    2. The Note Lights settings normally are used to set the lights for
       each note in the 12 EDO scale, which isn't very useful for other
       EDO settings. However, LinnStrument has the ability to paint any
       light pattern you wish, by setting each note pad to any of 10
       colors or off. To learn about this, see the Panel Settings page,
       Global Settings tab, Note Lights On/Off heading, Scale Select
       subheading.

Q: Which DAWs or synths are MPE-compatible (work with LinnStrument's Channel
Per Note and Channel Per Row MIDI modes)?

   A: There's a list on our "Recommended Sounds" page, accessed from the
   LinnStrument Support page.

Q: Are [70]MPE-compatible synths necessary for use with LinnStrument?

   A: No. By default, LinnStrument uses it's One Channel MIDI mode,
   thereby making it compatible with every MIDI synth in existence. MPE
   (Channel Per Note mode) is only needed if you need to play polyphonic
   pitch bends or polyphonic Y-axis, which are fairly rare in most types
   of music. And note you can get polyphonic pressure with one-channel
   synths because of MIDI's Polyphonic Pressure (aftertouch) messages.
   Also, LinnStrument's [71]smart MIDI One Channel mode transparently
   works around MIDI's limitations for polyphonic expression over a single
   MIDI channel.

   So if you don't have an MPE synth, you may never notice any limitations
   when playing LinnStrument in One Channel mode. In fact, most
   LinnStrument owners use standard one-channel synths, and [72]one of our
   main demo videos for LinnStrument doesn't use any MPE sounds at all.
   And note that all of[73] Audio Modeling's superb wind and bowed-string
   software instruments are monophonic and therefore can't take any
   advantage of MPE (MIDI polyphonic expression).

Q: Can LinnStrument be used as a step sequencer?

   A: Yes, it has a built-in step sequencer. You can learn about it on the
   [74]Panel Settings page, "Sequencer" tab.

Q: Can you add this feature: __________?

   A: LinnStrument has a very full feature set, which you can see in the
   Panel Settings page, accessed from the LinnStrument Support page.

   However, the flexible nature of LinnStrument inspires many different
   people to want to make it into many different instruments. Geert
   (LinnStrument programmer) and I (Roger) realized early on that:

   1) We don’t have the resources to make a LinnStrument that meets
   everyone’s individual desires,
   2) we didn’t want to make it so complex that it scares away non-techy
   musicians, and
   3) we wanted to keep it compact without adding space for an
   alphanumeric display and various editing knobs, switches and sliders.

   So we intentionally chose parameters that focused on its core purpose
   as an expressive musical performance instrument and printed them on the
   panel, and other than the sequencer settings, I only printed parameters
   in the first 16 columns in order to maintain compatibility with
   LinnStrument 128. And for all of the many different features that
   individual users desire, we:

   1) released the software as open-source, permitting everything to be
   customized,
   2) put in lots of remote MIDI commads so that external computer
   applications can control nearly everything, and
   3) created a User Firmware Mode that allows LinnStrument to act as a
   smart terminal for external computer applications.

   Given that the upper and lower printed panel parameters through column
   16 are all used, any new features must be fairly simple and carefully
   considered to be important to many users for LinnStrument's core
   purpose as an expressive musical performance instrument.

Q: Why didn't you use a softer, thicker touch surface as on the Continuum or
Seaboard?

   A: I (Roger) tried a variety of materials and thicknesses. Here is why
   I finally decided on LinnStrument's 2mm thick, slightly soft 40
   durometer silicone rubber surface:

   1) Adding more thickness spreads out the force of your touch onto the
   sensor below it, reducing the sensitivity to light touches.

   2) Foam rubber as used in the Continuum or Seaboard surfaces cannot be
   translucent and therefore can't be used for LinnStrument, which
   requires that the LED light shine through.

   3) While soft surfaces provide useful force feedback for pressure-based
   sounds, a harder surface is often more desirable for fast rhythmic
   play. For example, imagine playing rhythmic clavinet part on a sponge.

Q: Why isn't Open Sound Control implemented?

   A: The main reason is lack of customer interest. You certainly can
   convert the MIDI output to OSC by using a converter utility on your
   computer. The problem with OSC is that the creators intentionally
   didn't include any standard messages like MIDI's Note On, Note Off,
   Pitch Bend, etc., so plug-and-play operation is difficult. The peak of
   OSC's popularity was in the early iPhone days, when it was the only way
   to get musical control out of an iPhone. But since Apple implemented
   MIDI control in iOS, the popularity of OSC has diminished. Note also
   that because LinnStrument's software is open-source, anyone can write
   an OSC implementation.

Q: Why don't you make a version of LinnStrument optimized for guitar-style
play?

   A: Because LinnStrument can be tuned like a guitar, it would seem easy
   to make a version with a thinner neck optimized for guitar-style play.
   But much more is required for guitar-style play: a picking surface that
   feels natural, the ability to bend rows (strings) laterally, the
   ability to play bar chords and other string-focused fingering
   techniques, reducing the side margins around the neck to zero, changing
   the chassis to a something closer to a sculpted neck, and much more.
   Plus, Y-axis control wouldn't work on the very thin rows required for a
   guitar-like neck. And even if I (Roger) did all that work, the history
   of guitar controllers would suggest that it wouldn't be well-received
   because guitarists--a notoriously conservative lot--would judge if
   first on whether it can do everything a guitar can do, and only then
   explore its added possibilities.

   Instead, I choose for LinnStrument to be an entirely new instrument,
   standing on its own merits and unchained from the biases of players of
   existing acoustic instruments. My view is that the guitar represents
   the best instrument-design technology that was available a few
   centuries ago, but that is no longer the case.

Q: LinnStrument is not sending MIDI. What's wrong?

   A: Try the following:
    1. Are you using a USB hub? If so, remove it and connect directly to
       the computer.
    2. Is "Global Settings > Actions column > Update OS" on? If so, no
       MIDI data will be sent and "LinnStrument Serial" will appear in
       your computer's list of connected devices. (see #6 below.)
    3. If you're using USB, make sure that 'Global Settings > MIDI I/O
       column is set to "USB".
    4. Does it work using the MIDI OUT jack? To use this, in Global
       Settings > MIDI I/O column, select MIDI JACKS.
    5. If you're new to LinnStrument, it's possible that you may have
       accidentally set some settings such that no MIDI is sent. To
       restore all settings to factory status, perform a Reset: Turn on
       Global Settings, then in column 16 (Actions), press Notes Off (the
       lowest button) and Update OS (third button from the bottom) at the
       same time. You should see "Reset" in large letters.
    6. If connecting by USB to a computer, does LinnStrument show up in
       your computer's system information?
       If on mac, click Apple menu > About This Mac, then click System
       Report. In the System Report window, click Hardware > USB at left.
       You should see "LinnStrument MIDI".
       If on Windows, open Device Manager. You should see "LinnStrument
       MIDI" in the list of "Sound, Video and Game Controllers".
    7. To verify that MIDI messages are arriving at your computer when
       LinnStrument's surface is played:
       If on mac, [75]download and install a mac utility called MIDI
       Monitor. Be sure "LinnStrument MIDI" appears in the Sources section
       and is checked, then play LinnStrument's surface. You should see
       the received MIDI messages in the display area.
       If on Windows, [76]download and install a Windows utility called
       "MIDI OX". Open it and from the Options menu, select MIDI Devices.
       This will display a new window where you will should the
       "LinnStrument MIDI" in the MIDI Inputs panel. Click on it to select
       it and then click on OK. Then play your LinnStrument and you should
       see MIDI messages in the main area of the MIDI OX windows.
    8. If you're using a Mac and have an earlier USB-MIDI Korg driver in
       your system, it has a bug that prevents LinnStrument from appearing
       as a MIDI device on your Mac. The solution is to uninstall the
       current Korg USB-MIDI driver, which you can do by clicking
       [77]here. (Or delete the driver from 'Macintosh
       HD>Library>Audio>MIDI Drivers'.) Then reboot your computer and see
       if that fixes it. If so, then install the latest Korg USB-MIDI
       driver and verify that LinnStrument still works.
    9. If you have a MIDI keyboard (either USB output or DIN MIDI output),
       try connecting it. If it also doesn't work, this suggests something
       else in your system isn't working or set up properly. For example,
       you may not have the correct MIDI channel selected in your synth or
       DAW.
   10. Reboot your computer.
   11. Look inside LinnStrument's USB jack. You should see a black plastic
       rectangular block in the center. If you instead see 4 (or less)
       gold pins, the USB jack was damaged by a hard cable pull. If so,
       read the FAQ below "My USB jack appears to be physically damaged.
       For example, if I look closely into the jack, I see some bent pins.
       Or it has come loose inside the chassis. What can I do?"

Q: LinnStrument will not accept an OS Update from the LinnStrument Updater
app. What's wrong?

   A: Try the following:
    1. Are you using a USB hub? If so, remove it and connect directly to
       the computer. (USB hubs often don't provide sufficient power.)
    2. Is LinnStrument sending MIDI over USB? (See FAQ above.)
    3. Is [Global Settings > Actions column > Update OS] turned on?
    4. Is LinnStrument showing up in your computer's system information?
       If on mac, click Apple menu > About This Mac, then click  System
       Report. In the System Report window, click Hardware > USB at left.
       You should see "LinnStrument Serial" if [Global Settings > Update
       OS] is on, or "LinnStrument MIDI" if it is off. (After changing
       state of Update OS, type Command+R to refresh the window.)
       If on Windows 10, open Device Manager. Under the "Port (COM & LPT)"
       category, you should see "USB Serial Device (COM#)".
    5. Try rebooting your computer.
    6. Try using a different computer. If you're on Windows, do you have a
       friend with a mac who would let you try the update from it?
    7. Look inside LinnStrument's USB jack. You should see a black plastic
       rectangular block in the center. If you instead see 4 (or less)
       gold pins, the USB jack was damaged by a hard cable pull. If so,
       [78]contact me (Roger) to discuss your repair options.

Q: When I slide my finger left or right to bend the pitch, the ending note
pad of the slide has a different pitch than if I lift my finger and play the
same destination note pad. What's wrong?

   A: This means that LinnStrument's Bend Range (in Per-Split Settings) is
   different than the Pitch Bend Range in your synth. They must always be
   set to the same value or you'll get this problem.

   If you're new to MPE (MIDI Polyphonic Expression), read section 4 of
   the Getting Started page, or the first section of the Recommended
   Sounds page. This will help you understand the correct Bend Range
   setting and other settings when using MPE synths and conventional
   one-channel synths.

Q: The white playing surface is loose, sometimes lifting slightly. How do I
fix this?

   A: If you've just received your new LinnStrument from a hot delivery
   truck, or if the temperature around your LinnStrument is unusually
   high, its silicone playing surface may expand slightly and become
   loose, causing it to lift slightly from the flat surface below it.

   This occurs because LinnStrument's large, thin playing surface is made
   from soft silicone rubber, which expands slightly under heat. To
   mitigate this expansion, the playing surface is fabricated to be
   slightly smaller than the correct size, then it is stretched slightly
   during installation to its correct size. However, under enough heat it
   can expand enough to result in become loose. It is impossible to
   prevent such expansion without gluing it down to the touch sensor below
   it, which I (Roger) feel is unnecessary because the problem is rare and
   because such gluing would prevent independent replacement of the
   playing surface and touch sensor.

   The fix is simple: put your LinnStrument in the refrigerator for 20
   minutes (really!), and the touch surface will shrink back to normal
   size. Then avoid placing LinnStrument in direct hot sun or near a
   heater or other source of heat.

   If this doesn't work, you can loosen the top panel screws then
   re-stretch the playing surface while tightening the screws. To see how
   to do this, click the "Installing Replacement Parts" link on this page
   and follow the instructions for "Replacing the top panel or white
   playing surface", but merely remove and reattach the top panel while
   stretching the surface.

Q: There is no Y-axis (forward/backward) response in one column or two
neighboring columns, or one or more note pads in a column doesn't respond.
Help!

   A: This usually indicates that a panel screw is slightly loose, perhaps
   due to insufficient tightening after replacing the top panel. This is
   because the screws also press the sensor’s contacts against the mating
   contacts on the circuit board. So if too loose, they may not make
   contact, so Y-axis won’t work on the nearby column. To tighten the
   panel screws correctly, click the "Installing replacement parts" link
   at left, then read the section "If a column doesn't produce Y-axis
   response".

Q: When I connect power, all pads are red (or green or blue), or I see "FWUP"
in large letters. Help!

   A: If all pads are red when you power on, then the Per-Split Settings
   buttons is stuck in the pressed state, probably as aresult of high
   temperatures during shipping or in your environment, causing the
   silicone playing surface to expand around the 2 nearby screws, thereby
   forcing this button to stick in the ON state and when powered on, enter
   LinnStrument's Manufacturing Test Mode. Or if all lights turn green or
   blue at power-on, this is due to the Preset or Volume buttons also
   being stuck in the pressed state.

   The solution is to loosen both of these screws nearest the Per-Split
   Settings button by 1/4 turn and reconnect power. If you see the normal
   scale lights, you've solved the problem. If not, try another 1/4 turn.

   Or if you see "FWUP" in large letters when you connect power, then one
   of the 2 panel screws nearest to the GLOBAL SETTINGS button is too
   tight, forcing this button to stick in the ON state, causing
   LinnStrument to enter a special FirmWare UPdate mode that is only used
   during software development. The solution is to loosen both of these
   screws by 1/4 turn and reconnect power. If you see the normal scale
   lights, you've solved the problem. If not, try another 1/4 turn.

   You can find more information about correctly tightening the panel
   screws by clicking the "Installing Replacement Parts" link at left and
   watching these video chapters:

   5) Install the playing surface and top panel
   6) Test the panel screw tightness

Q: Sometimes when I play multiple pads, a note will stick on after release.
This can happen anywhere on the playing surface. Wassup?

   A: The problem may be that your computer or sound generator being
   overloaded by the large volume of continuous MIDI messages generated by
   LinnStrument for its expression data. A standard MIDI keyboard sends
   only two continuous streams-- Pitch Bend (only when the bend wheel is
   moved) and Channel Pressure (only when turned on and only when keys are
   pressed hard). By comparison, in LinnStrument's Channel Per Note (MPE)
   mode, it sends 3 continuous streams (X, Y and Z) for each touch. For
   example, 10 touches produces 30 continuous and simultaneous MIDI
   streams. While relatively new computers, DAWs and software synths
   handle this fine, older computers or software and some hardware sound
   generators may not.

   Here are a few solutions to try:
    1. Use the MIDI OUT jack instead of USB, because LinnStrument sends
       USB MIDI data at 3.7 times the rate of the MIDI OUT Jack. Note that
       you must set 'Global Settings > MIDI I/O' to MIDI JACKS to do this.
    2. If using USB output, try reducing the density of sent MIDI
       messages. Go to [79]the Panel Settings page, Global Settings tab,
       and search for "USB MIDI Data Reduction".
    3. If you're using a USB hub, try connecting directly to the
       computer's USB port because the hub may be limiting the volume of
       MIDI data. Also, try all of the computer's USB ports because some
       ports may be given higher priority than others.
    4. Change 'Per-Split Settings > Loudness/Z' from Poly Pressure to
       Channel Pressure. This will send only one continuous stream for
       pressure regardless of how many notes are held.
    5. If the sound you're using doesn't use Y-axis data, turn it off. Set
       'Per-Split Settings > Timbre/Y > On' to Off.
    6. If the sound you're using doesn't use pressure data, turn it off.
       Set 'Per-Split Settings > Loudness/Z > On' to Off.
    7. If the sound you're using doesn't use pitch bend data, turn it off.
       Set 'Per-Split Settings > Pitch/X > On' to Off.

Q: Sometimes when I press hard on one specific note pad on the playing
surface and release it, the note (and the pad's light) stays on after
release. Further, pressing one of the adjacent pads around it will often turn
this stuck note (and the pad's light) off. What's wrong?

   If your LinnStrument recently experienced unusually high humidity or
   heat, such as transport in a hot and humid shipping truck or being
   placed near a heater in a humid environment, or your location is
   experiencing much rain or humidity coupled with temperature changes,
   airborne humidity can condense into moisture inside LinnStrument's
   highly sensitive touch sensor as temperature cools. Then if a specific
   note pad is subsequently played repeatedly, this moisture can result in
   that note pad sticking in the ON state after release. If so, remove the
   LinnStrument from any unusual source of heat or humidity, and avoid the
   problem pad or at least play it lightly, for two weeks. Depending on
   ambient humidity, the problem should disappear by then as the moisture
   evaporates. If the problem doesn't correct itself, [80]contact me
   (Roger) and I can suggest other solutions, including (if under
   warranty) free exchange of the touch sensor sheet (which senses
   LinnStrument's entire playing surface) with a new or refurbished sensor
   of the same design year that meets current specifications. Note that
   LinnStrument has two 25-gram packets of silica desiccant attached to
   the inside of the chassis bottom to help absorb any such moisture, but
   it is difficult to protect LinnStrument's highly-sensitive touch sensor
   from unusually high levels of humidity and heat.

Q: If I hold 3 note pads that are 3 corners of a rectangle, presses to the
note pad that is the 4th corner of that rectangle are ignored. What's wrong?
Q: I can't play more than 3 notes in one column. What's wrong?

   A: I'm sorry to report that these are both fundamental electrical
   limitations of LinnStrument's touch sensing technology. They are stated
   on this FAQ page under the Pre-Sales Tab, FAQ "What are the limitations
   of LinnStrument's sensor technology?". Fortunately, LinnStrument's
   string-like note layout provides multiple locations for each pitch, so
   if either of these problems occurs when playing a speicific chord
   fingering, there is always an alternate fingering that doesn't have
   this problem.

Q: If I hold 3 note pads that are 3 corners of a rectangle, sometimes the pad
at the 4th corner will light without pressing, or pressing the 4th pad will
sometimes cause an adjacent pad to play. What's wrong?

   A: This suggests that your sensor calibration is not accurate, perhaps
   because the sensor properties have changed slightly due to temperature
   or humidity. Try calibrating your LinnStrument as described on the
   [81]Panel Settings page, Global Settings tab, Actions section,
   Calibrate subsection.

   If this doesn't fix the problem, [82]contact me (Roger) and I'll figure
   out what's wrong.

Q: My LinnStrument doesn't sit level on a table, but rather rocks on two
opposite corners. How do I fix this?

   A: LinnStrument's thin sheet metal chassis can be slightly misaligned
   during shipping or movement. The solution is simple: place your
   LinnStrument on a flat surface then press down on the two elevated
   corners. This won't hurt it.

Q: My USB jack appears to be physically damaged. For example, if I look
closely into the jack, I see some bent pins. Or it has come loose inside the
chassis. What can I do?

   A: Unfortunately the industry-standard USB jack (USB-B) in LinnStrument
   was originally designed for stationary computer peripherals like
   printers or modems, and not for musicians. If you pull hard sideways on
   a USB cable, it can damage LinnStrument's USB jack, especially if
   playing LinnStrument in the standing position. Such damage due to a
   cable pull is unfortunately not covered under your warranty. If your
   USB jack is damaged, you have three options:

   1) You can have a local electronics repair shop replace the USB jack.
   This is only possible if you have a LinnStrument 128, or a LinnStrument
   200 with serial number 700 or higher. (LinnStrument 200 units with
   serial LNL00699 or lower use a surface-mount USB jack that requires
   option #2 below.) I (Roger) am happy to coordinate with your repair
   shop. Don't try this repair yourself unless you are skilled in
   desoldering multi-pin jacks like the USB jack. The difficulty is in
   unsoldering all [83]6 pins enough to remove the old jack, which is
   tricky and if done incorrectly, could damage the traces under the USB
   jack, requiring replacement of the entire main circuit board, which
   costs $460 for the large model or $300 for the LinnStrument 128. The
   USB jack is a TE Connectivity AMP 292304-1, which you can buy [84]here.
   Or any USB jack with the same industry-standard pin location will work,
   but the recommended jack is stronger. Or I (Roger) can sell you one of
   the same USB jacks for my minimum parts charge of $20 + shipping.
   To do the repair, click the "Installing Replacement Parts" link at
   left/top and follow the instructions for "Replacing a broken USB jack".

   2) I (Roger) can send you a new circuit board that you can install
   yourself.
   You can install the new board yourself in about 30 minutes by following
   a video, using only a screwdriver. (To see the installation
   instructions, click "Installing replacement parts" at left/top and read
   the section "Replacing either the Main (larger) or LED (smaller)
   circuit board".) Then you will return your circuit board with the
   damaged USB jack within 30 days. The cost for all LinnStrument 128
   units, or for LinnStrument 200 units with serial LNL00700 or higher is
   $100 plus shipping both ways. The cost for LinnStrument 200 units with
   serial LNL0699 or lower is $200 plus shipping both ways.

   3) We'll do the repair.
   You can send your LinnStrument 200 or 128 to us and we'll do the repair
   then send it back fixed. The cost for all LinnStrument 128 units, or
   for LinnStrument 200 units with serial LNL00700 or higher is $100 plus
   shipping both ways. The cost for LinnStrument 200 units with serial
   LNL0699 or lower is $200 plus shipping both ways.

   Even with a broken USB jack, you can probably still play your
   LinnStrument. If you have the large LinnStrument model, you can use the
   round MIDI jacks and a power supply. Or if you have LinnStrument 128
   (without the power jack) and the USB jack is working for power but not
   data, you can use the USB jack for power and the round MIDI jacks for
   data.

   In future, damage to the USB jack can be avoided by tying the USB cable
   around the nearest guitar strap button as a strain relief, as shown at
   the bottom of the [85]Hooking It Up page. This is a trick that
   guitarists commonly use to avoid similar damage from pulled guitar
   cables.

Q: Occasionally all the note pad lights flash unexpectedly. What's wrong?

   A: This indicates that you are powering LinnStrument from an inadequate
   power source, perhaps an iPad with a non-Apple Lightning adapter or a
   USB hub that doesn't supply LinnStrument's required 300 mA minimum
   current. See the Hooking It Up page for more information.

Q: Help! My LinnStrument is dead. No lights are on and it doesn't send any
MIDI. How can I fix it?

   A: First, verify that LinnStrument is receiving adequate power. Connect
   your USB cable directly to your computer's USB port or to a USB power
   adapter. Many of the low-cost, off-brand USB hubs often don't supply
   LinnStrument's minimum 300 mA of current.

   Second, verify that LinnStrument's USB jack hasn't been damaged by an
   accidental sideways hard cable pull. Look inside LinnStrument's USB
   jack. You should see a black plastic rectangular block in the center.
   If you instead see 4 (or less) gold pins, the USB jack was damaged by a
   hard cable pull and isn't delivering power. If so, [86]contact me
   (Roger) to discuss your repair options.

   If the USB jack is OK and unit isn't functioning, then it's likely that
   you have been powering LinnStrument from an inadequate power source,
   perhaps an iPad with a non-Apple Lightning adapter or a USB hub that
   doesn't supply LinnStrument's required 300 mA minimum current. You may
   have seen its note pad lights flash unexpectedly, an early indication
   of poor power. In this case, the power has dipped below the required
   minimum many times during internal writes to flash memory, and
   eventually LinnStrument was unable to recover. Or you may have tried to
   update the software while supplying poor power.

   The solution is simple: connect LinnStrument directly to your
   computer's USB port and update it to the current OS version, using the
   "Updating Software" link at left/above. It will still accept an OS
   update in this state and should return the LinnStrument to full
   function. Once you have completed the OS update, you'll also need to
   Calibrate your LinnStrument. To learn how to do this, open the Panel
   Settings page, Global Settings tab, then scroll down near the bottom of
   the page to the "Actions" section.

   To avoid this problem in future, it is important to provide
   LinnStrument with adequate power. Click the "Hooking It Up" link at
   left/above to learn how to insure you are providing adequate power.

Q: There is a very quiet acoustic noise coming from LinnStrument's playing
surface when I press any note pads. Is this normal?

   A: I’m sorry to say that faint acoustic noise is normal and also cannot
   be changed. It as a common artifact of high speed electronics,
   sometimes called “coil whine” or “singing capacitors” and is usually
   made quieter by enclosing the electronics in a metal chassis or other
   acoustic damping materials. However, this cannot be done in
   LinnStrument because the high-speed sensing electronics must be located
   directly below the playing surface in order to minimize noise signals,
   and the playing surface cannot be covered with a metal cage or acoustic
   damping materials because that's where you play. Fortunately, the noise
   is so quiet that it is easily masked by the sound of the played
   synthesizer.

Q: I've lost some of my screws. Where can I get replacements?

   A: Yes. They are all avaiable at McMaster.com:
   1) [87]Top panel screws
   2) [88]Guitar strap button screws
   3) [89]Wood side screws
   4) [90]Wood side washers

Q: Up to half the pads on one end of a single row aren't responding, or only
respond to touches in a portion of the pad. What's wrong?

   This indicates that one of two connectors to LinnStrument's internal
   touch sensor sheet has some minor corrosion inside it. The solution is
   to partially disassemble your LinnStrument and clean the connectors by
   removing the touch sensor sheet from its 2 connectors, then replacing
   it back into the same 2 connectors. To do this, click the link on this
   page for "Installing Replacement Parts" and read the section "Replacing
   the touch sensor sheet". Follow these instructions except instead of
   replacing the touch sensor sheet, simply remove then reinstall the same
   touch sensor sheet. Also, there's no need to do step 7 (calibrating the
   touch sensor) unless you did a calibration while the problem existed,
   in which case you should do step 7.

   Note: If the above doesn't solve the problem, don't remove and replace
   the touch sensor a second time. The reason is that the tiny tail
   connectors of the touch sensor aren't designed to be removed and
   replaced many times. If the problem isn't solved, contact me (Roger) at
   the email shown in the Contact link at the bottom of this page.

   Or...

   if you need a quick temporary fix, you can do an "enhanced reset",
   which is the same as the Reset command in Global Settings, Actions
   column, but also resets your sensor calibration data to an average of
   all sensors, which should temporarily restore the problem pads to
   working status. Here is how to do the "Enhanced Reset":

   While holding both the GLOBAL SETTINGS and SWITCH 2 buttons, connect
   USB power. ‍

   This should appear to solve the problem, but your LinnStrument won't be
   fully accurate until a new sensor calibration (in Global Settings,
   Actions column) is performed, which isn't possible without the above
   connector cleaning. Without full accuracy, you will likely experience
   problems with some notes within a chord not playing, playing wrongly,
   or nearby pads triggering falsely.

Q: There's something loose that slides around inside my LinnStrument when
I move it. What's wrong?

   I’m sorry about problem. There are 2 bags of silica desiccant
   duct-taped to the inside of the chassis to absorb moisture.
   Unfortunately, for some units of the production batch that included
   your LinnStrument, the assembler at my factory didn’t adequately press
   the pieces of duct tape to secure the desiccant bags, so they are
   sliding around inside the unit. I (Roger) did a quality inspection
   including a shake test, and my manufacturer did a pre-ship shake test,
   but apparently for your unit, the poorly-secured tapes came loose
   during shipping.
   The solution is fairly simple: disassemble the unit, secure the loose
   tapes to the desiccant bags, then reassemble it. It should take about
   30 minutes and requires only a screwdriver. To do this, click the
   "Installing replacement parts" link at left and read the section
   "Replacing either the Main (larger) or LED (smaller) circuit board”. In
   chapter 4 of the video ("Replace one of the two circuit boards"),
   remove the circuit board and sensor assembly from the chassis to see
   the unsecured desiccant pages and strips of duct tape inside your
   chassis. Press hard to secure the bags with the tapes in the positions
   shown in the photo below. Then continue the instructions to reassemble
   the LinnStrument.

   Or if you prefer, email me (Roger) at the support address and I'm happy
   to arrange a day and time for me to step you through the process in a
   video call.

Q: The lights seem to be flickering. Can this be reduced?
Q: When I make a video of LinnStrument, the lights flicker. How can I solve
this?

   LinnStrument has 208 RGB LEDs (equal to 624 individual LEDs) and
   LinnStrument 128 has 136 RGB LEDs (equal to 408 individual LEDs). This
   large number of LEDs requires higher power than USB can reliably
   provide. In order to draw low enough current for USB power,
   LinnStrument uses high-efficiency RGB LEDs but turns on only one column
   at a time. In LinnStrument, the lights are turned on for only 1/26 of
   the time (1/52 in Low Power mode). And for LinnStrument 128, the lights
   are on only 1/17 of the time (1/34 in Low Power mode). Due to
   persistence of vision, your eyes see this as continuous light. There
   are only two levels of brightness: Normal Power and Low Power (dimmed
   LEDs) modes.

   For some people, this method causes a noticeable light flicker.
   Unfortunately, because this lighting method is controlled by hardware,
   it cannot be changed by a software update. A workaround to is to
   increase the ambient light in your room. This will cause your pupils to
   contract, effectively dimming the LEDs and making the flicker less
   noticeable. Also, you'll see less flicker with the single-LED colors
   red, green and blue. All other colors are derived from mixing these
   three colors and are more likely for you to perceive flicker.

   Also, videos of LinnStrument can result in noticeable light flickering
   or pulsing on playback. This is caused by the camera's shutter being
   open for only a short portion of each video frame, so it can miss the
   short time that the lights are on. The solution is to increase the
   Shutter Speed on your video camera to stay open for longer, ideally for
   the entire frame. This will insure that the camera captures the brief
   period that the lights are on. For example, when shooting video at 30
   frames per second, set your shutter speed to as close as possible to
   the 1/30 second, the full duration of each frame. If your camera
   doesn't have a Shutter Speed adjustment (as many mobile phone cameras
   don't), then reduce the light in the room. This will cause the camera
   to automatically increase the shutter speed in order to capture more
   light.

Q: The playing surface has become dirty. How do I clean it?

   If LinnStrument's touch surface gets dirty, it's easy to clean.

   For removing small amounts of dust between the pads, a small hand-held
   vacuum cleaner works well. Or for deeper cleaning between the pads, use
   a toothbrush with a little soapy water on it, but be careful not to let
   water seep into the edges under the metal plate.

   For the most thorough cleaning, remove the top panel and the silicone
   playing surface, then wash it with soapy water, dry it, replace it and
   reassemble your LinnStrument. To learn how to do this, click the
   "Installing Replacement Parts" link at left (or above on mobile) and
   read the section "Replacing the top panel or white playing surface".
   Follow the instructions for replacing the playing surface, but merely
   remove, clean and replace the playing surface.

     * [91]About us
     * [92]Contact US
     * [93]Newsletter

   © 2020 ROGER LINN DESIGN

References

   Visible links:
   1. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/linnstrument
   2. https://www.rogerlinndesignstore.com/Default.asp
   3. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/where-to-buy-dealers
   4. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-register-your-linnstrument
   5. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/where-to-buy-discounts
   6. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/buying-used
   7. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument
   8. https://www.sequential.com/product/tempest/?referer=rogerlinndesign.com
   9. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-adrenalinn
  10. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-mpc60-version-3-10
  11. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-legacy-products
  12. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-roger-linn-design
  13. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-museum
  14. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/roger-faq
  15. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-press
  16. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-grammy
  17. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/more/stanford-workshop
  18. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-contact
  19. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument
  20. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-register-your-linnstrument
  21. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-getting-started
  22. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-support-panel-settings
  23. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-hooking-it-up
  24. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-faqs
  25. https://www.kvraudio.com/forum/viewforum.php?f=263
  26. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-recommended-sounds
  27. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-bitwig-8-track
  28. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/ls-surge
  29. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-logic
  30. https://www.youtube.com/user/rogerlinndesign/playlists?disable_polymer=1
  31. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-submit-video
  32. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-chord-and-scale-shapes
  33. http://www.jeffmoen.com/
  34. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-creating-sounds
  35. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-what-is-mpe
  36. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-pressure
  37. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-linnstrument-tips-tricks
  38. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-linnstruments-smart-midi
  39. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-samples-vs-synthesis
  40. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-update-software
  41. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-repair-old
  42. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/newsletters-home
  43. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-stolen
  44. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/zoom-call
  45. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-geoswam
  46. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/artists
  47. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support---ls-visual-impaired
  48. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/where-to-buy/buying-used
  49. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-source-code
  50. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-midi-implementation
  51. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-developers-how-to-add-mpe
  52. https://github.com/rogerlinndesign/linnstrument-firmware/blob/master/user_firmware_mode.txt
  53. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-design-ideas
  54. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-fourths-layout
  55. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/why-expression
  56. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/how-linnstruments-sensor-works
  57. https://youtu.be/-hfzA1M8h48?si=xpzigHzujP6rpAGd
  58. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/early-designs
  59. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-ls-engineering-files
  60. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-fourths-layout
  61. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-chord-and-scale-shapes
  62. https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/5ad24a891dee8925107423d0/5e694a584b96301ca40a5960_linnstrument-note-layout.svg
  63. https://www.ableton.com/en/push/
  64. https://www.simplyduty.com/import-calculator/
  65. https://www.rogerlinndesignstore.com/Pow-9V-International-p/pow_9v_int.htm
  66. http://erogenous-tones.com/linnstrument-user-scale-mode/
  67. http://hpi.zentral.zone/cse
  68. https://hpi.zentral.zone/ute
  69. http://benfuhrman.com/linnstrument-edo-mode/
  70. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-what-is-mpe
  71. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-linnstruments-smart-midi
  72. https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=3&v=flKMz9UmqAw
  73. http://www.audiomodeling.com/
  74. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-support-panel-settings
  75. https://www.snoize.com/MIDIMonitor/
  76. http://www.midiox.com/
  77. https://www.korg.com/us/support/download/driver/1/285/3856/
  78. mailto:support@rogerlinndesign.com
  79. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-support-panel-settings
  80. mailto:support@rogerlinndesign.com
  81. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/linnstrument-support-panel-settings
  82. mailto:support@rogerlinndesign.com
  83. https://www.dropbox.com/s/zvanay60nj113d9/USB jack 6 pins.jpeg?dl=0
  84. https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/te-connectivity-amp-connectors/292304-1/773785?s=N4IgTCBcDaICoFMAEBjA9gOwwlAXAlgG764CeSYAnGAMwAMALALQCMIAugL5A
  85. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/support-linnstrument-hooking-it-up
  86. mailto:support@rogerlinndesign.com
  87. https://www.mcmaster.com/91698A306/
  88. https://www.mcmaster.com/90258A221/
  89. https://www.mcmaster.com/95836A339/
  90. https://www.mcmaster.com/98269A430/
  91. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-roger-linn-design
  92. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/about/about-contact
  93. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/support/newsletters-home

   Hidden links:
  95. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/
  96. https://www.rogerlinndesign.com/
  97. https://www.facebook.com/RogerLinnDesign
  98. https://www.youtube.com/user/rogerlinndesign
  99. https://twitter.com/roger_linn
 100. https://www.instagram.com/roger.linn/
